They would repeal the Affordable Care Act, not improve it.
They would give more tax breaks to the super-wealthy and corporations, not to the middle class.
And they would, despite all their tough talk about terrorism, continue to let people who are on the no-fly list buy guns.
There was a breach because the DNC vendor screwed up, information came to our campaign.
In this case, our staff did the wrong thing -- they looked a that information.
As soon as we learned that they looked at that information - we fired that person.
We are now doing an independent internal investigation to see who else was involved.
Fourthly, I work -- look forward to working with Secretary Clinton for an investigation, an independent investigation, about all of the breaches that have occurred from day one in this campaign, because I am not convinced that information from our campaign may not have ended up in her campaign.
This small country has welcomed in many refugees.
We lose 33,000 people a year already to gun violence, arming more people to do what I think is not the appropriate response to terrorism.
Senator Sanders voted against the Brady Bill.
Senator Sanders voted to give immunity to gun dealers.
And Senator Sanders voted against even research dollars to look into this public health issue.
Secretary Clinton changes her position on this every election year, it seems, having one position in 2000 and then campaigning against President Obama and saying we don't need federal standards.
ISIL videos, ISIL training videos are telling lone wolves the easiest way to buy a combat assault weapon in America is at a gun show.
In 1988, just to set the record straight governor, I ran for the U.S. House.
One candidate said, you know what, I don't think it's a great idea that we sell automatic weapons in this country that are used by the military to kill people very rapidly.
Gun people said, there were three candidates in the race, you vote for one of the others, but not Bernie Sanders.
I lost that election by three percentage points.
They are going to people showing videos of Donald Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists.
I think it's fair to say, Assad has killed, by last count, about 250,000 Syrians.
The reason we are in the mess we're in, that ISIS has the territory it has, is because of Assad.
Middle class in this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing; are we better of today then we were when Bush left office?
But as you've indicated for millions of American workers, people in New Hampshire -- all over America, they're working longer hours for lower wages deeply worried about their kids.
Women should not be making 79 cents on the dollar compared to that.
I think it's great standing up here with the senator and the governor talking about these issues, because you're not going to hear anything like this from any of the Republicans who are running for president.
And the worst type of concentration, Secretary Clinton, is the concentration of the big banks, the big six banks that you went to and spoke to and told them, oh, you weren't responsible for the crash, not by a long shot.
Secondly, I think it's important to point out that about 3 percent of my donations come from people in the finance and investment world.
I have more donations from students and teachers than I do from people associated with Wall Street.
Well, I would certainly build on the successes of the Affordable Care Act and work to fix some of the glitches that you just referenced.
I can tell you that adding up the fact you're not paying any private insurance, businesses are not paying any private insurance.
The average middle-class family will be saving thousands of dollars a year.
The cost of college education is escalating a lot faster than the cost of inflation.
Number one, States have been dis-investing in higher education.
In fact, I think New Hampshire, in state tuition for public colleges and universities, is among the highest if not the highest in the country.
So states over a period of decades have put their money elsewhere; into prisons, into highways, into things other than higher education.
When I ran in 1999, David, for mayor of Baltimore, our city by that year had become the most addicted, violent, and abandoned in America.
And we were able to put our city on the path for the biggest reduction in crime of any major city in America over the next ten years.
People are pouring across the southern border.
Drugs will not pour through that wall.
We need to embed our forces -- our troops inside the Iraqi military.
And even worse, President Obama and Hillary Clinton are proposing bringing tens of thousands of Syrian refugees to this country when the head of the FBI has told Congress they cannot vet those refugees.
Soon after 9/11, I got a phone call from the NSA.
They needed help.
I gave them help.
I stopped a truckload of equipment.
I had it turned around.
But they must be engaged, and they must be asked.
Number one, it ended the federal government's bulk collection of phone metadata of millions of law-abiding citizens.
It strengthened the tools of national security and law enforcement to go after terrorists.
It gave us greater tools and we are seeing those tools work right now in San Bernardino.
And in particular, what it did is the prior program only covered a relatively narrow slice of phone calls.
When you had a terrorist, you could only search a relatively narrow slice of numbers, primarily land lines.
The USA Freedom Act expands that so now we have cell phones, now we have Internet phones, now we have the phones that terrorists are likely to use and the focus of law enforcement is on targeting the bad guys.
And that tool we lost, the metadata program, was a valuable tool that we no longer have at our disposal.
Once again, Marco opposed this.
He is the one for an open border that is leaving us defenseless.
They do not need to be forced.
They need to be asked to bring the best and brightest, the most recent technology to the table.
I was asked as a CEO.
But they have not been asked.
That's why it cost billions of dollars to build an Obama website that failed because the private sector wasn't asked.
What it means is using overwhelming air power to utterly and completely destroy ISIS.
To put things in perspective, in the first Persian Gulf War, we launched roughly 1,100 air attacks a day.
We carpet bombed them for 36 days, saturation bombing, after which our troops went in and in a day and a half mopped up what was left of the Iraqi army.
We didn't monitor the Facebook posting of the female San Bernardino terrorist because the Obama DHS thought it would be inappropriate.
She made a public call to jihad, and they didn't target it.
You would carpet bomb where ISIS is, not a city, but the location of the troops.
There were numerous people, including the mother, that knew what was going on.
When you had the World Trade Center go, people were put into planes that were friends, family, girlfriends, and they were put into planes and they were sent back, for the most part, to Saudi Arabia.
Look, two months ago Donald Trump said that ISIS was not our fight.
Just two months ago he said that Hillary Clinton would be a great negotiator with Iran.
Every one was retired early because they told President Obama things that he didn't want to hear.
But I will tell you this, when I stand across from King Hussein of Jordan and I say to him, "You have a friend again sir, who will stand with you to fight this fight," he'll change his mind.
Once again, the Obama administration, encouraged by Republicans, toppled Mubarak who had been a reliable ally of the United States, of Israel, and in its place, Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood came in, a terrorist organization.
These moderate rebels end up being jihadists.
We've spent $3 trillion and probably much more - I have no idea what we've spent.
I know Vladimir Putin.
And, you know, one of the most troubling aspects of the Rubio-Schumer Gang of Eight Bill was that it gave President Obama blanket authority to admit refugees, including Syrian refugees without mandating any background checks whatsoever.
Ted, you support legalizing people who are in this country illegally.
Ted Cruz supported a 500-percent increase in the number of H-1 visas, the guest workers that are allowed into this country, and Ted supports doubling the number of green cards.
I have never supported legalization, and I do not intend to support legalization.
Do you know how many aliens Bill Clinton deported?
12 million.
Do you know how many illegal aliens, George W. Bush deported?
10 million.
On September 10th, 2001, I was named chief federal prosecutor in New Jersey and on September 11th, 2001, my wife and my brother who are in the audience tonight went through the World Trade Center and to their offices just blocks away from the Trade Center.
And yet they are seeing almost all new income and all new wealth going to the top 1 percent.
They see more people in jail in the United States of America than any other country on earth, 2.2 million.
We're spending $80 billion a year locking up fellow Americans.
Americans haven't had a raise in 15 years.
There aren't enough good-paying jobs, especially for young people.
Twenty-nine million people have no health insurance today in America.
We pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
One out of five Americans can't even afford the prescriptions their doctors are writing.
My price tag is about $100 billion a year.
And again, paid for.
And let us be clear that every proposal that I have introduced has been paid for.
Who denies that real unemployment today, including those who have given up looking for work and are working part-time is close to 10 percent?
Who denies that African-American youth unemployment, real, is over 50 percent.
I'm very proud that I support legislation that is currently in the Congress, got support of almost all progressive Democrats in the House and Senate, which says we will end the absurdity of women today making 79 cents on the dollar compared to men.
When we have more people in jail, disproportionately African American and Latino, than China does, a communist authoritarian society four times our size.
I think under President Obama we have seen a lot of advances, the Affordable Care Act has helped more African Americans than any other group to get insurance, to be taken care of, but we also know a lot more than we did.
As I understand it, the African-American community lost half of their wealth as a result of the Wall Street collapse.
We have the highest rate of childhood poverty among almost any major country on Earth.
I have long supported the proposition that we should lift the cap on taxable income coming into the Social Security Trust Fund, starting at $250,000.
We do what the American people want, to expand Social Security by $1,300 a year for people under $16,000, and we extend the life of Social Security for 58 years.
And in Libya, for example, the United States, Secretary Clinton, as secretary of state, working with some other countries, did get rid of a terrible dictator named Gadhafi.
Mossadegh back in 1953.
Nobody knows who Mossadegh was, democratically-elected prime minister of Iran.
One, Senator Sanders voted in 1998 on what I think is fair to call a regime change resolution with respect to Iraq, calling for the end of Saddam Hussein's regime.
He voted in favor of regime change with Libya, voted in favor of the Security Council being an active participate in setting the parameters for what we would do, which of course we followed through on.
But more importantly, in terms of this Libya resolution that you have noted before, this was a virtually unanimous consent.
Everybody voted for it wanting to see Libya move toward democracy, of course we all wanted to do that.
But I want to -- I want to follow up on something having to do with leadership, because, you know, today Senator Sanders said that President Obama failed the presidential leadership test.
And this is not the first time that he has criticized President Obama.
In the past he has called him weak.
He has called him a disappointment.
He wrote a forward for a book that basically argued voters should have buyers' remorse when it comes to President Obama's leadership and legacy.
When President Obama came into office we were losing 800,000 jobs a month, 800,000 jobs a month.
We had a $1.4 trillion deficit.
The blurb said that the next president of the United States has got to be aggressive in bringing people into the political process.
You know, Senator, what I am concerned about, is not disagreement on issues, saying that this is what I would rather do, I don't agree with the president on that, calling the president weak, calling him a disappointment, calling several times that he should have a primary opponent when he ran for re-election in 2012, you know, I think that goes further than saying we have our disagreements.
But we have the lowest percentage of Americans working today of any year since 1977.
Median wages have stagnated.
And I've done it when I was in Washington when we had a balanced budget; had four years of balanced budgets; paid down a half-trillion of debt.
And if you tax cuts -- if you cut taxes for corporations, and you cut taxes for individuals, you're going to make things move, particularly the corporate tax, which is the highest, of course, in the -- in the world.
Someone who cannot handle intelligence information appropriately cannot be commander in chief and someone who lies to the families of those four victims in Benghazi can never be president of the United States.
We have the world's best military, even though he's done everything he can to diminish it.
When I look at the migration, I looked at the line, I said it actually on your show recently, where are the women?
It looked like very few women.
Very few children.
Strong, powerful men, young and people are looking at that and they're saying what's going on?
He put a 25 million dollar check up from his own pocket to fund that campaign and my wife Heidi and I, we ended up investing everything we owned.
Under longstanding U.S. law, the child of a U.S. citizen born abroad is a natural-born citizen.
Our military is a disaster.
This president is undermining our military.
First of all, I didn't support Sonia Sotomayor.
Secondly, I never wrote a check to Planned Parenthood.
Third, if you look at my record as governor of New Jersey, I have vetoed a 50-caliber rifle ban.
I have vetoed a reduction this clip size.
I vetoed a statewide I.D. system for gun owners and I pardoned, six out-of-state folks who came through our state and were arrested for owning a gun legally in another state so they never have to face charges.
And on Common Core, Common Core has been eliminated in New Jersey.
I'll tell you what else they're upset about: you're 50 or 51 years old, and some kid walks in and tells you you're out of work, and you don't know where to go and where to turn.
Well, there's not question that we should be able to look at past president whether they're married to somebody who's running for president or not in terms of their past behavior and what it means.
Look, I have an A plus rating in the NRA and we also have a reduction in gun violence because in Florida, if you commit a crime with a gun, you're going away.
Not a lot of conservatives come out of Manhattan.
And the reason I said that is because the FBI director told the American people, told Congress, that he could not guarantee he could vet them and it would be safe.
That's wrong.
They were wrong.
Let's not have the most expensive business tax rate in the world.
If you reform the corporate tax system in this country, which, as was mentioned before, is the highest rate in the world -- and we double tax, as you know.
And what that's led to over $2 trillion of American companies' monies that are being kept offshore, because they don't want to pay the second tax.
They don't want to pay 35 percent tax on the way back.
Ronald Regan opposed the value tax because he said it was a way to blindfold the people, so the true cost of government was not there there for them.
Well, Marco has been floating this attack for a few weeks now, but the problem is, the business flat tax in my proposal is not a vat.
A vat is imposed as a sales tax when you buy a good.
I would note that Art Laffer, Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser, has written publicly, that my simple flat tax is the best tax plan of any of the individuals on this stage cause it produces economic growth, it raises wages and it helps everyone from the very poorest to the very richest.
It is also the case that that Rubio-Schumer amnesty bill, one of the things it did is it expanded Barack Obama's power to let in Syrian refugees.
It enabled him -- the president to certify them en masse without mandating meaningful background checks.
Ted Cruz, you used to say you supported doubling the number of green cards, now you say that you're against it.
You used to support a 500 percent increase in the number of guest workers, now you say that you're against it.
You used to support legalizing people that were here illegally, now you say you're against it.
You used to say that you were in favor of birthright citizenship, now you say that you are against it.
They were watching the humiliation of our young ten sailors, sitting on the floor with their knees in a begging position, their hands up.
And Iranian wise guys having guns to their heads.
The state should also be sending money immediately to help this city.
You are paying three times more for poison water than I am paying in Burlington, Vermont for clean water.
First thing is you say, people are not paying a water bill for poison and that is retroactive.
We have a higher rate of tested lead in people in Cleveland than in Flint.
I want us to have an absolute commitment to getting rid of lead wherever it is because it's not only in water systems, it's also in soil, and it's in lead paint that is found mostly in older homes.
That's why 500,000 children today have lead -- lead in their bodies.
We will commit to a priority to change the water systems, and we will commit within five years to remove lead from everywhere.
I am also going to go after companies like Johnson Controls in Wisconsin.
They came and got part of the bailout because they were an auto parts supplier and now they want to move headquarters to Europe.
Secretary Clinton supported virtually every one of the disastrous trade agreements written by corporate America.
NAFTA, supported by the Secretary cost, us 800,000 jobs nationwide, tens of thousands of jobs in the Midwest.
Permanent normal trade relations with China cost us millions of jobs.
He was against the auto bailout.
I voted to save the auto industry.
... to set the record straight, I voted against the only multinational trade agreement that came before me when I was in the Senate.
I came out against the TPP after it was finished.
I thought it was reasonable to actually know what was in it before I opposed it.
I told them they were wrecking the economy.
I asked for a moratorium on foreclosures.
I asked that we do more to try to prevent what I worried was going to happen.
I also called for closing loopholes including the carried interest loophole.
I also called for changes in CEO pay.
And you know what, if you were going to be in some way distrusted or dismissed about whether you can take on Wall Street if you ever took money, President Obama took more money from Wall Street in the 2008 campaign than anybody ever had.
You know, on average, 90 people a day are killed by gun violence in our country.
Because it removed any accountability from the makers and the sellers.
So that is an issue that Senator Sanders and I differ on, I voted against giving them immunity, but I think we should very seriously move to repeal that and go back to making sure gun makers and sellers are like any other business.
I have a D minus voting record from the NRA.
You are looking at a guy who in 1988 lost a statewide election for Congress because I was the only candidate who said you know what, I don't think it's a great idea in this country to be selling military-style assault weapons which are designed to kill people.
I lost that election by three votes.
No other industry in America has absolute immunity...
But where we are right now is having more than 2.2 million people in jail -- more than any other country on earth.
This is a campaign promise, at the end of my first term, we will not have more people in jail than any other country.
What it says among other things, 51 percent of African-American kids today are unemployed -- you know we're going to do?
So to answer your question, I would say, and I think it's similar to what the secretary said, when you're white, you don't know what it's like to be living in a ghetto.
You don't know what it's like to be poor.
And what that legislation ended up doing is increasing extreme poverty, the poorest people in this country have become much poorer as a result of that -- really a bill that was written by Republicans.
... Anderson, not only do we have a crumbling school system in Detroit, and in many other areas, we have -- and everybody in this room should be embarrassed by this, we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
And what they are telling me -- if we don't get our act together, this planet could be 5 to 10 degrees warmer by the end of this century -- cataclysmic problems for this planet.
And I talk to scientists who tell me that fracking is doing terrible things to water systems all over this country.
A lot of money from Wall Street and from the fossil fuel industry.
I have 5 million individual contributors who have gone to BernieSanders.com to make a $27 contribution.
I don't take money from the fossil fuel industry.
I would love to run against Donald Trump, and I'll tell you why.
I have not insulted Donald personally and I don't intend to.
And then in Ohio, of course, I had to bring about big reform, again, because we were so far in the hole and now we just found out we are up over 400,000 jobs since I took over as governor.
When that war began, we had 8,000 planes.
Today, we have about 4,000.
When that war began, we had 529 ships.
Today, we have 272.
Look at the attack they inspired in Philadelphia, that the White House still refuses to link to terror, where a guy basically shot a police officer three times.
He told the police, "I did it because I was inspired by ISIS," and to this day, the White House still refuses to acknowledge it had anything to do with terror.
What those facts knew was that these folks had weapons.
They knew that they were talking about trying to take our country and attack it.
It is the biggest job-killer in this country.
Millions of Americans have lost their jobs, have been forced into part-time work, have lost their health insurance, have lost their doctors, have seen their premiums skyrocket.
And, it says blanket amnesty, I do not support blanket amnesty...
It absolutely has been, and at the time in the context of that was in 2009, and 2010, where the last effort for legalization was an effort done in the Senate.
It was an effort led by several people that provided almost an instant path with very little obstacles moving forward.
Barack Obama actually had the poison pill to stop it then.
You know, the amendment you're talking about is one sentence -- it's 38 words.
In those 38 words, it said anyone here illegally is permanently ineligible for citizenship.
It didn't say a word about legalization.
She wants to put Barack Obama on the Supreme Court of the United States of America.
She said that here in Iowa just two days ago.
And then we decided we could bring $14 billion of our money -- I mean, Washington doesn't have any money.
We've got to end this rigged economy where people are working longer hours for low wages, almost all new income and wealth going to the top 1 percent, and of course, we need comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship.
It was not prohibited.
It was not in any way disallowed.
And as I have said and as now has come out, my predecessors did the same thing and many other people in the government.
And some other parts of the government, we're not exactly sure who, has concluded that some of the emails should be now retroactively classified.
They've just said the same thing to former Secretary Colin Powell.
They have said, we're going to retroactively classify emails you sent personally.
Now I think he was right when he said this is an absurdity.
Poverty is increasing.
Well, when we talk about efforts to assist immigrants, Secretary Clinton prevailed upon the governor of New York, Elliot Spitzer, who wanted to do the right thing and provide driver's license to these who were undocumented, she said don't do it, and New York State still does not do it.
And I said welcome those children into this country, Secretary Clinton said send them back.
And in 2006, when Senator Sanders was running for the Senate from Vermont, he voted in the House with hard-line Republicans for indefinite detention for undocumented immigrants, and then he sided with those Republicans to stand with vigilantes known as Minute Men who were taking up outposts along the border to hunt down immigrants.
And as I said earlier, in 2006, Senator Sanders supported indefinite detention for people facing deportation...
...and stood with the Minutemen vigilantes in their ridiculous, absurd efforts to, quote, "hunt down immigrants.
There was a piece of legislation supported by dozens and dozens of members of the House which codified existing legislation.
No, I did not oppose the bailout or the support of the automobile industry.
But the fact is the money that rescued the auto industry was in that bill.
And the result is that we have the most secure border we've ever had.
Apprehensions coming across the border are the lowest they've been in 40 years, which just strengthens my argument that now it's time to do comprehensive immigration reform.
I went to Wall Street before the Great Recession and basically called them out, said that their behavior was putting our economy at risk, called for a moratorium on foreclosures.
Look, clearly, clearly, the secretary's words to Wall Street has really intimidated them, and that is why they have given her $15 million in campaign contributions.
It is a record of achievement for veterans, working with Republicans, helping to craft the most significant veterans healthcare bill passed in many decades.
One of the points that I've been making, and media does not seem to pick up on it, is that we have a real crisis not only with real unemployment in America being close to 10 percent, but youth unemployment in this country.
And right now, I go around asking people at my events if they know what their interest rate is and the interest rates literally go from like 8 percent to 14 percent.
It's outrageous that at a time when interest rates have been historically low, people borrowing money to invest in their education are paying some of the highest interest rates around.
And by the way, everybody, who, quote, "got money" in the quote, "bailout", that also included money for the auto rescue has paid it back.
So, the Treasury was out nothing.
Now that will no longer happen because we have Dodd-Frank and we will break up banks that pose a systemic threat to our economy.
One out of five Americans cannot afford the prescription drugs their doctors prescribe.
The clean power plan is something that Senator Sanders has said he would delay implementing, which makes absolutely no sense.
Throughout the history of our relationship with Latin America we've operated under the so-called Monroe Doctrine, and that said the United States had the right do anything that they wanted to do in Latin America.
So I actually went to Nicaragua and I very shortly opposed the Reagan administration's efforts to overthrow that government.
And I strongly opposed earlier Henry Kissinger and the -- to overthrow the government of Salvador Aliende (ph) in Chile.
...on the other hands, it would be wrong not to state that in Cuba they have made some good advances in health care.
They are sending doctors all over the world.
Because let's remember three words: Bush versus Gore.
A court took away a presidency.
Now we've got the Republican Congress trying to take away the constitution.
And that is, is it acceptable that in America the top 0.1 percent now owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
Is it acceptable that while the average American works longer hours for lower wages, 58 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent.
It's important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clinton's gonna be the next president, because she's been in office and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight.
I cut taxes every year, totaling $19 billion.
And the net effect was, during my eight years, 1.3 million jobs were created.
We came in, we balanced an $11 billion deficit on a $29 billion budget by cutting over 800 programs in the state budget.
We brought the budget into balance with no tax increases.
In fact, we vetoed five income tax increases during my time as governor.
We cut business taxes $2.3 billion, and we cut regulation by one-third of what my predecessor put in place.
Unlike Hillary Clinton, who has a radical position in terms of support for Planned Parenthood, I defunded Planned Parenthood more than four years ago, long before any of these videos came out...
And finally, our Medicaid is growing at one of the lowest rates in the country.
And, finally, we went from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black.
We've cut $5 billion in taxes...
This was not a subject that was on anybody's mind until I brought it up at my announcement.
And I said, Mexico is sending.
And they send the bad ones over because they don't want to pay for them.
Now, he's got his solutions.
Some of us have other solutions.
You know, look, I balanced the federal budget as one of the chief architects when I was in Washington.
I was a military reformer.
I took the state of Ohio from an $8 billion hole and a 350,000 job loss to a $2 billion surplus and a gain of 350,000 jobs.
This is the most generous country in the world when it comes to immigration.
There are a million people a year who legally immigrate to the United States, and people feel like we're being taken advantage of.
A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty.
I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumer's gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate.
I was appointed U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001, and the world changed enormously the next day, and that happened in my state.
The Fourth Amendment was what we fought the Revolution over!
John Adams said it was the spark that led to our war for independence, and I'm proud of standing for the Bill of Rights, and I will continue to stand for the Bill of Rights.
Our graduation rate improved by 50 percent.
Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready.
Before I came in, the unemployment rate was over eight percent.
It's now down to 4.6 percent.
We've more than made up for the jobs that were lost during the recession.
And the rate in which people are working is almost five points higher than it is nationally.
And, if Congress wants to mess with the retirement program, why don't we let them start by changing their retirement program, and not have one, instead of talking about getting rid of Social Security and Medicare that was robbed $700 billion dollars to pay for Obamacare.
One of the reasons that Social Security is in so much trouble is that the only funding stream comes from people who get a wage.
The people who get wages is declining dramatically.
The fact is, I built a net worth of more than $10 billion.
20 -- over 40 percent of small and mid-size banks that loan money to small businesses have been wiped out over the -- since Dodd-Frank has passed.
I have never said that.
And I have never advocated that.
Our Navy is at its smallest size since 1917; our Air Force, since 1940.
In recent testimony, the commandant of the Marine Corps said half of the non-deployed units were not ready and you know, the sequester is cutting the heart out of our personnel.
You know, Ukraine was a nuclear-armed state.
They gave away their nuclear arms with the understanding that we would protect them.
I have a D-minus voting record from the NRA.
I was in 1988, there were three candidates running for congress in the state of Vermont, I stood up to the gun lobby and came out and maintained the position that in this country we should not be selling military style assault weapons.
I have supported from day one and instant background check to make certain that people who should have guns do not have guns.
And that includes people of criminal backgrounds, people who are mentally unstable.
Yes look, I have made it clear based on Senator Sanders' own record that he has voted with the NRA, with the gun lobby numerous times.
He voted against the Brady Bill five times.
He voted for what we call, the Charleston Loophole.
He voted for immunity from gunmakers and sellers which the NRA said, "was the most important piece of gun legislation in 20 years. "
He voted to let guns go onto the Amtrak, guns go into National Parks.
He voted against doing research to figure out how we can save lives.
Let's not forget what this is about, 90 people a day die from gun violence in our country.
That's 33,000 people a year.
There is no other industry in America that was given the total pass that the gun makers and dealers were and that needs to be reversed.
One out of three African American men may well end up going to prison.
This is a responsibility for the U.S. Justice Department to get involved.
Whenever anybody in this country is killed while in police custody, it should automatically trigger a U.S. attorney general's investigation.
I'm on the committee that wrote the Affordable Care Act.
I made the Affordable Care Act along with Jim Clyburn a better piece of legislation.
I voted for it, but right now, what we have to deal with is the fact that 29 million people still have no health insurance.
We are paying the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs, getting ripped off.
Tell me why we are spending almost three times more than the British, who guarantee health care to all of their people?
Fifty percent more than the French, more than the Canadians.
We're not going to tear up the Affordable Care Act.
But we are going to move on top of that to a Medicaid-for- all system.
We now have driven costs down to the lowest they've been in 50 years.
Senator Sanders called him weak, disappointing.
He even, in 2011, publicly sought someone to run in a primary against President Obama.
But look, I have a plan that most commentators have said is tougher, more effective, and more comprehensive.
Yes, well, first of all -- first of all, Paul Krugman, Barney Frank, others have all endorsed my plan.
Secondly, we have Dodd-Frank.
It gives us the authority already to break up big banks that pose...
The leader of Goldman Sachs is a billionaire who comes to Congress and tells us we should cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
Well, the last point on this is, Senator Sanders, you're the only one on this stage that voted to deregulate the financial market in 2000, to take the cops off the street, to use Governor O'Malley's phrase, to make the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission no longer able to regulate swaps and derivatives, which were one of the main cause of the collapse in '08.
We made our public schools No.1  in America more than five years in a row, and went four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.
I've got the most comprehensive legislation in the Senate to do that.
With solar, with wind, with new technologies, with green buildings, this can happen, but in all -- President Obama made us more energy independent, but in all of the above strategy didn't land us on the moon, we need American ingenuity and we need to reach by 2050 for the sake of our kids.
We have a $600 billion military budget.
It is a budget larger than the next eight countries'.
-- the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country, voted for virtually every disastrous trade agreement which cost us millions of decent-paying jobs.
And I question her judgment about running super PACs which are collecting tens of millions of dollars from special interests, including $15 million from Wall Street.
I led the opposition to that war.
Secretary Clinton voted for that.
Let's talk about super PACs and 501(c)(4)s, money which is completely undisclosed.
A few days ago Goldman Sachs formally reached a settlement with the United States government for $5 billion dollars.
What Goldman Sachs acknowledged was, essentially, that they were selling fraudulent packages of subprime mortgage loans.
Goldman Sachs was not the only bank, other banks, of course, did the same.
Now, I don't need Dodd-Frank now to tell me that we have got to break up these banks, A, because they're based on fraudulent principles, and B, because when you have six financial institutions that have assets equivalent to 58% of the GFP of this country, they are just too big, too much concentration of wealth and power.
Now, Secretary Clinton was busy giving speeches to Goldman Sachs for $225,000 a speech.
I'm the only one on this stage who did not vote to deregulate swaps and derivatives, as Senator Sanders did, which led to a lot of the problems that we had with Lehman Brothers.
And second of all, of course we will release our taxes.
Unfortunately -- unfortunately, I remain one of the poorer members of the United States Senate.
And what we need to do is to tell this guy Immelt, who's the head of General Electric, he doesn't like me, well, that's fine.
He has outsourced hundreds of thousands of decent-paying jobs throughout the world...
-- I have supported the fight for 15.
I am proud to have the endorsement of most of the unions that have led the fight for 15.
I always have.
I supported that when I was in the Senate.
When this campaign began, I said that we got to end the starvation minimum wage of $7.25, raise it to $15.
Secretary Clinton said let's raise it to $12.
I have said from the very beginning that I supported the fight for $15.
I also -- I supported the $15 effort in L.A.
I supported in Seattle.
I supported it for the fast food workers in New York.
Going from $7.25 to $12 is a huge difference.
No, of course not.
Of course not.
Well, the facts are that most of the guns that end up committing crimes in New York come from out of state.
They come from the states that don't have kind of serious efforts to control guns that we do in New York.
He clearly was helped by the NRA, because they ran ads against his opponent.
So, then he went to the Congress, where he has been a largely very reliable supporter of the NRA.
Voting -- he kept his word to the NRA, he voted against the Brady Bill five times because it had waiting periods in it.
They are in court today, and actually they won a preliminary decision today.
They have the right to sue, and I support them and anyone else who wants the right to sue.
This is a -- this is a unique gift given to only one industry in the world by the United States Congress, as Senator Murphy from Connecticut said, we have tougher standards holding toy gun manufacturers and sellers to account than we do for real guns.
So, we both have relatively small amounts of contributions from people who work for fossil fuel companies.
But, as I understand it, 43 lobbyists for the fossil fuel industry maxed out, gave the maximum amount of money to Secretary Clinton's campaign.
Now, that's not saying -- and, then some people say, well, given the hundreds of millions of dollars she raises it's a small amount.
That's true.
Now, the truth is, as secretary of state, Secretary Clinton actively supported fracking technology around the world.
Regime change often has unintended consequences in Iraq and in Libya right now, where ISIS has a very dangerous foothold.
-- I -- I would just point out that there was a vote in the Senate as to whether or not the United States should support the efforts by the Libyan people to protect themselves against the threats, the genocidal threats coming from Gadhafi, and whether we should go to the United Nations to seek Security Council support.
Senator sanders voted for that, and that's exactly what we did.
Secretary Clinton made this charge in previous debates and just repeating it doesn't make it truer.
Well, you know what, I surely have always supported Libya moving to democracy.
But please do not confuse that with your active effort for regime change without contemplating what happened the day after.
Well, what I believe, if my memory is correct here, we spend about 75 percent of the entire cost of the military aspect of NATO.
Given the fact that France has a very good health care system and free public education, college education for their people, the U.K. has a good National Health Service and they also provide fairly reasonable higher education, you know what, yeah, I do believe that the countries of Europe should pick up more of the burden for their defense.
You gave a major speech to AIPAC, which obviously deals with the Middle East crisis, and you barely mentioned the Palestinians.
For example, we are the only country, major country on Earth, that does not guarantee health care to all people, and yet we end up spending almost three times what the British do, 50 percent more than the French.
I have supported it.
They're calling Social Security a Ponzi scheme.
They still want to privatize it.
In fact, their whole idea is to turn over the Social Security Trust Fund to Wall Street, something you and I would never let happen.
We've not had one question about a woman's right to make her own decisions about reproductive health care, not one question.
I have raised millions of dollars for my colleagues in the United States Senate to help them get elected.
The truth is, and you can speak to my colleagues, we have raised millions of dollars to the DSCC.
I have written letter that have raised, if I may use the word, huge amount of money so that's just not accurate.
9.6 million at the last count.
Secretary Clinton cleaned our clock in the Deep South.
People are working longer hours for lower wages, and almost all of the new income and wealth goes to the top one percent.
Well, John, look, I think that what happened when we abided by the agreement that George W. Bush made with the Iraqis to leave by 2011, is that an Iraqi army was left that had been trained and that was prepared to defend Iraq.
Unfortunately, Nouri al-Maliki, the prime minister, set about decimating it.
In fact, climate change is directly related to the growth of terrorism.
The 500,000 who came home with PTSD, and traumatic brain injury.
Well, we have an authorization to use military force against terrorists.
We passed it after 9/11.
We are spending hundreds of billions of dollars maintaining 5,000 nuclear weapons.
In fact, wages adjusted for inflation haven't risen since the turn of the last century, after my husband's administration.
Nancy, the blueprint in Maryland that we followed was yes, we did in fact raise the sales tax by a penny and we made our public schools the best public schools in America for five years in a row with that investment.
And yes, we did ask everyone -- the top 14 percent of earners in our state to pay more in their income tax and we were the only state to go four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuitions.
That billionaires pay an effective tax rate lower than nurses or truck drivers.
And may I point out that under Ronald Reagan's first term, the highest marginal rate was 70 percent.
The Republicans have voted to repeal it nearly 60 times.
The truth of the matter is, net immigration from Mexico last year was zero.
$10.10 was all I could get the state to do by the time I left in my last year.
But two of our counties actually went to $12.80 and their county executives, if they were here tonight, would also tell you that it works.
He is the foremost expert in our country on the minimum wage, and what its effects are.
And the overall message is that it doesn't result in job loss.
However, what Alan Krueger said in the piece you're referring to is that if we went to $15, there are no international comparisons.
I think we need to stop taking our advice from economists on Wall Street...
He's not wall street.
I did introduce legislation to reign in compensation.
We are relying on small campaign donors, 750,000 of them, 30 bucks a piece.
You know, not only do I have hundreds of thousands of donors, most of them small.
And I'm very proud that for the first time a majority of my donors are women, 60 percent.
But just think about this-- since we last debated in Las Vegas, nearly 3,000 people have been killed by guns.
Twenty-one mass shootings, including one last weekend in Des Moins where three were murdered.
Two hundred children have been killed.
I have voted time and again to -- for -- for the background check, and I want to see it improved and expanded.
In 1988, I lost an election because I said we should not have assault weapons on the streets of America.
According to the statistics that I'm familiar with, a black male baby born today stands a one in four chance of ending up in the criminal justice system.
7 percent and 8 percent to go to college?
I have looked at -- I have looked at the legislation that Senator Sanders has proposed, and basically, he does eliminate the Affordable Care Act, eliminates private insurance, eliminates Medicare, eliminates Medicaid, Tricare, children's health insurance program -- puts it all together in a big program which he then hands over to the states to administer.
John -- John, this country today has more income and wealth inequality than any major country on Earth.
We are the only major country on Earth that doesn't guarantee healthcare to all people.
We have the highest rate of childhood poverty, and we're the only country in the world -- virtually the only country that doesn't guarantee paid family and medical leave.
Rhode Island had the biggest drop of the unemployment rate over my four budgets of all but one state.
Our poor families are becoming poorer, and 70 percent of us are earning the same, or less than we were 12 years ago.
Today in America, we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
African-American youth unemployment is 51 percent.
Hispanic youth unemployment is 36 percent.
I did say, when I was secretary of state, three years ago, that I hoped it would be the gold standard.
And what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the top one-tenth of 1 percent in this country own almost 90 percent -- almost -- own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
That it is wrong, today, in a rigged economy, that 57 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent.
That when you look around the world, you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right, except the United States.
And we put our city on a path to reduce violent crime, or part one (ph) crime by more than any other major city in America over the next 10 years.
Of course not.
This was a large and complicated bill.
There were provisions in it that I think made sense.
When I was a young man, I strongly opposed the war in Vietnam.
What I did was allowed by the State Department, but it wasn't the best choice.
We have 27 million people living in poverty.
The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House and that's why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017.
I never took a position on Keystone until I took a position on Keystone.
And the way you expand it is by lifting the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the system as somebody making $118,000.
You do that, Social Security is solvent until 2061 and you can expand benefits.
Well, I would shut down -- make -- I'd shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in this country ends up in a file at the NSA.
He could have been a whistleblower.
He could have gotten all of the protections of being a whistleblower.
We have a criminal justice system that lets CEOs on Wall Street walk away, and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana.
We should not be the country that has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country.
But I will -- but I will tell you this, the socialist says they're going to pay for everything and give you everything for free, except they don't say they're going to raise it through taxes to 90 percent to do it.
You know, I left my medical practice and ran for office because I was concerned about an $18 trillion debt.
We borrow a million dollars a minute.
Now, on the floor of the Congress, the Washington establishment from both parties puts forward a bill that will explode the deficit.
It allows President Obama to borrow unlimited amounts of money.
Believe me, that is why Ohio is doing well.
Becky, if you want a 10 percent flat tax where the numbers add up, I rolled out my tax plan today, you can find it on line at tedcruz.org.
It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000.
That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too.
We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years.
Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes.
I don't recall the Sun -- in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him.
In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again.
Think about it: six and a half million people working part-time.
Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977.
Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same.
All that's in that trust fund is a pile of IOUs for money they spent on something else a long time ago.
And they've stolen from you because now they know they cannot pay these benefits and Social Security is going to be insolvent in seven to eight years.
We're sitting up here talking about all these other things; 71 percent of federal spending today is on entitlements, and debt service.
And, that's with zero percent interest rates.
And we'll save a trillion dollars over the next 10 years.
What Hillary Clinton's going to say, and has said before is, she wants to raise Social Security taxes.
It isn't there anymore, Mike.
They stole it.
It got stolen from them.
It's not theirs anymore.
The government stole it, and spent it a long time ago...
I never filed for bankruptcy.
I've used it three times, maybe four times.
We owe $19 trillion, boy am I good at solving debt problems.
Well, the average small manufacturer, whatever they're manufacturing, drugs or anything, if they have less than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of regulations is $34,000 per employee.
Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733.
Becky, it is the height of hypocrisy for Mrs. Clinton to talk about being the first woman President, when every single policy she espouses, and every single policy of President Obama has been demonstrably bad for women.
I didn't have an involvement with them.
I was not at all critical of him.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan.
You know, the FBI director, the president's appointed FBI director has said this week that because of a lack of support from politicians like the president of the United States, that police officers are afraid to get out of their cars; that they're afraid to enforce the law.
And he says, the president's appointee, that crime is going up because of this.
We have 400,000 small businesses forming every year in this country.
The bad news is, we have 470,000 going out of business every year.
They cite Obamacare.
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.
In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's accountability, just as John said.
We stuck to the fact that Americans are tired of Washington corporate interests and Democrats who are interested in just politics and power and they're looking for someone who's going to fight for them; looking for someone who's going to grow manufacturing sector of our economy, so those 74 percent of Americans who don't have a college degree have a chance to rise again.
I am tired of sending $300 billion overseas to buy oil from people who hate our guts.
It says that after 35 million people have come here over the last 20 years, almost all of whom are unskilled workers, flattening wages, creating horrible opportunity -- a lack of opportunities for unskilled workers, we're going to do something about reducing the level of immigration by 25 percent.
He said, "we don't have leverage with China to get a better deal on Iran because we need them to lend us money to continue operating our government."
The Oregon study showed this.
And I know this, because when I ran for governor of New York, one in 11 of every man, woman, and child in the state of New York was on welfare.
And by the way, when I left, there were over 1 million fewer people on welfare in New York state than when I took office...
1.5 million jobs created during the worst economic time this country has had since the Great Depression while the rest of the country lost 400,000 jobs.
When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn't exist, folks.
When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo?
It doesn't exist, folks.
They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us.
They're bringing drugs.
They're bringing crime.
They're rapists.
They just built a hotel in Syria.
They built a hotel.
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion.
Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees -- these are big vehicles -- were left behind for the enemy.
2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.
It was below zero.
It's never below zero.
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent.
Don't believe the 5.6.
A lot of people up there can't get jobs.
They can't get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs.
Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old.
Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof.
$5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn't work.
A $5 billion Web site.
Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion.
We owe Japan more than that.
We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us.
Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we're going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that's it.
And they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education.
And some of them are like third world countries.
And I have assets -- big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected -- 9 billion 240 million dollars.
And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph).
That's long-term debt, very low interest rates.
None of us on this state are under investigation by the FBI because we destroyed government records, or because we leaked secrets.
I say not in a braggadocious way, I've made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world, and I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again.
There's not a place in the world where we're better off today than six and a half years ago.
In Wisconsin, you're losing $2.2 billion right now.
Every major business leader has used the -- I never went bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows.
So, look, we brought it out, you were supposed to make a billion dollars in the state.
You lost 2.2 -- you have right now, a huge budget deficit.
We balanced a $3.6 billion budget deficit, we did it by cutting taxes -- $4.7 billion to help working families, family farmers, small business owners and senior citizens.
This is not just a little conflict with a Middle Eastern country that we've just now given over $100 billion to, the equivalent in U.S. terms is $5 trillion.
We won't know under this agreement -- there are several facilities in Iran they designate as military facilities that are off limit all together.
Beyond that, the other facilities, we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them.
That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence.
We made accommodation to the Fort Hood shooter to let him grow a beard.
On these videos, Planned Parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies.
It is a felony with ten years' jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit.
That's what these videos show Planned Parenthood doing.
Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, it's heart beating, it's legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain.
Illegal immigration is costing us more than $200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have.
I mean, the fences that were there were not manned, and those are the kind of fences when I was a kid that would barely slow us down.
They stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there.
But the simple fact is, if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish, a school -- by the way, a voucher program that was created under my watch, the largest voucher program in the country, where kids can go to a Christian school, and they ask me a question in Spanish, I'm going to show respect and answer that question in Spanish.
A majority of the men and women on this stage have previously and publicly embraced amnesty.
I am the only candidate on this stage who has never supported amnesty and, in fact, who helped lead the fight to stop a massive amnesty plan.
First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still coming illegally.
It primary is built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit.
40 percent of the people who come here illegally come legally, and then they overstay the visa.
And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn't have that.
They are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby.
They want it to be an issue that they can use.
As to birthright citizenship...
Despite those difficult times, we doubled the size of the company, we quadrupled its topline growth rate, we quadrupled its cash flow, we tripled its rate of innovation.
Yes, we had to make tough choices, and in doing so, we saved 80,000 jobs, went on to grow to 160,000 jobs.
And now Hewlett Packard is almost 300,000 jobs.
We went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every market segment.
I am the only person on this dais -- the only person -- that fought very, very hard against us (ph), and I wasn't a sitting politician going into Iraq, because I said going into Iraq -- that was in 2003, you can check it out, check out -- I'll give you 25 different stories.
They've funded the arms that went to the jihadists.
They're not accepting any of the people, any of the migrants that have been -- the refugees that are being pushed out of Syria.
Saudi Arabia is not accepting one.
I'm not against medical marijuana.
We do it in New Jersey.
But I'm against the recreational use against marijuana.
We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather, because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world, absolutely.
Just the other day, two years old, two and a half years old, a child, a beautiful child went to have the vaccine, and came back, and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.
But, you know, the fact of the matter is, we have extremely well-documented proof that there's no autism associated with vaccinations.
But it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time.
My kids had all of their vaccines, and even if the science doesn't say bunching them up is a problem, I ought to have the right to spread out my vaccines out a little bit at the very least.
Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977.
