It's good to be with you.
After those four years of looking back and being prepared, the preparation to be the most powerful individual in the world requires an extraordinary amount of work: not just having been the governor of the 12th largest economy in the world, which I might add, we added 1.5 million jobs during that period of time over that 2007 through 2014 period, a period when America was going through the most deep recession it had been through since the Great Depression.
I think Americans want someone to have a track record of showing them how to get this country back on record, someone who will stand up and every day project that best days of America are in front of us.
And I will assure you, as the governor of the state of Texas, and as those last four years have shown me, the preparation to be ready to stand on this stage and talk about those monetary policies, those domestic policies, and those foreign policies, Americans are going to see that I am ready to be that individual.
Well, when you look at the celebrity of Donald Trump, then I think that says a lot about it.
One thing I like to remind people is, back in 2007, Rudy Giuliani was leading the polls for almost a year.
I'll suggest a part of that was his celebrity.
Fred Thompson was the other one, a man who had spent a lot of time on that screen.
I've had my issues with Donald Trump.
I talked about Donald Trump from the standpoint of being an individual who was using his celebrity rather than his conservatism.
How can you run for the Republican nomination and be for single- payer health care?
I mean, I ask that with all due respect.
And nobody, nobody on either one of these stages has done more than I've done and the people of the State of Texas to deal with securing that border.
We sent our Texas ranger recon teams.
We sent our parks and wildlife wardens.
I deployed the National Guard after I stood on the ramp in Dallas, Texas and looked the president of the United States in the eye and said, "Mr. President, if you won't secure the border, Texas will," and that's exactly what we did.
We need a president that doesn't just talk a game, but a president that's got real results.
Bill, here's the interesting position on this.
Americans are tired of hearing this debate -- want to go to, what are you going to do about illegal immigration?
For 30 years this country has been baited with that.
All the way back to when Ronald Reagan signed a piece of legislation that basically allowed for amnesty for over 4 million people, and the border is still not secure.
The American people are never going to trust Washington, D.C., and for good reason.
We hear all this discussion about well, I would do this, or I would do that, when the fact is, the border is still porous.
Until we have a president of the United States that gets up every day and goes to the Oval Office with the intent purpose of securing that border, and there's not anybody on either one of these stages that has the experience of dealing with this as I have for over 14 years with that 1200-mile border.
We have to put the personnel on that border in the right places; you have to put the strategic fencing in place; and you have to have aviation assets that fly all the way from Tijuana to El Paso to Brownsville, Texas -- 1,933 miles looking down 24/7, with the technology to be able to identify what individuals are doing, and ID when they are in obviously illegal activities or suspicious activities, and quick response teams come.
At that particular point in time, then Americans will believe that Washington is up to a conversation to deal with the millions of people that are here illegally, but not until.
If you elect me president of the United States, I will secure that southern border.
We need to be on the side that keeps Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
That's the side we need to be on, and that's the side of the bulk of the -- of the Middle East.
We need to have some coalitions in that part of the world to go after ISIS, but we also need to send a clear message.
And hopefully -- you know, Senator Graham, I -- I know where he's going to be on this, but we use Congress, and we use Congress to cut this funding.
One of the great challenges that we have, $150 billion is fixing to go to a country that killed our Marines in Lebanon, that used their weapons to kill our young men in Iran.
And the idea that this negotiation -- I will tell you one thing.
I would a whole lot rather had Carly Fiorina over there doing our negotiation than John Kerry.
Maybe we would've gotten a deal where we didn't give everything away.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but "Hell no" to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror, Susan Rice has said that, and we need to stand up and strongly and clearly tell the ayatollah that -- whoever the next president of the United States is going to be, and I'll promise you, if it's me, the first thing that I will do is tear up that agreement with Iran.
It'll be a pretty busy day, but that Iran negotiation is going to be torn up on day one.
We're going to start the process of securing that border.
I'm also going to take a bottle of White-Out with me to get started on all those executive orders that Mr. Obama has put his name to.
Well, let's go with three.
Good at email.
Well, this is going to be a show me, don't tell me election.
I think America is just a few good decisions and a leadership change at the top away from the best years we've ever had.
And I think that the record of the governor of the last 14 years of the 12th largest economy in the world is just the medicine America is looking for.
Americans are looking for somebody that's going to give them, and there is a place in this country over the last eight years in particular that talked about hope every day, and they didn't just talk about it, they delivered it.
And that was the state of Texas.
And if we can do that in Texas, that 12th largest economy in the world, we can do it in America.
Our best days are in front of us.
We can reform those entitlements, we can change that corporate tax code and lower it.
We can put America back on track on a growth level and a growth rate that we've never seen in the history of this country.
Manufacturing will flow back into this country.
It just needs a corporate executive type at the top that's done it before.
And I will suggest to you nobody's done it like Rick Perry has done it over the last eight years.
And if you elect me president, we will bring incredible growth back to this country.
And as someone who's worn the uniform of the country, that's how we build our military back up.
Well, I would begin by reminding people that at this point in previous presidential elections, Jimmy Carter couldn't win, Ronald Reagan couldn't win, Bill Clinton couldn't win, and neither could've Barack Obama.
I started as a secretary and became ultimately the chief executive of the largest technology company in the world, almost $90 billion in over 150 countries.
I know personally how extraordinary and unique this nation is.
I think to be commander in chief in the 21st century requires someone who understands how the economy works, someone who understands how the world works and who's in it; I know more world leaders on the stage today than anyone running, with the possible exception of Hillary Clinton; understands bureaucracies, how to cut them down to size and hold them accountable; and understands technology, which is a tool, but it's also a weapon that's being used against us.
Most importantly, I think I understand leadership, which sometimes requires a tough call in a tough time.
But mostly, the highest calling of leadership is to challenge the status-quo and unlock the potential of others.
We need a leader who will lead the resurgence of this great nation and unlock its potential once again.
Well, I don't know.
I didn't get a phone call from Bill Clinton before I jumped in the race.
Did any of you get a phone call from Bill Clinton?
I didn't.
Maybe it's because I hadn't given money to the foundation or donated to his wife's Senate campaign.
Here's the thing that I would ask Donald Trump in all seriousness.
He is the party's frontrunner right now, and good for him.
I think he's tapped into an anger that people feel.
They're sick of politics as usual.
You know, whatever your issue, your cause, the festering problem you hoped would resolved, the political class has failed you.
That's just a fact, and that's what Donald Trump taps into.
I would also just say this.
Since he has changed his mind on amnesty, on health care and on abortion, I would just ask, what are the principles by which he will govern?
Let me say first that it is disturbing that every time one of these home-grown terrorist attacks occurs, and, as your question points out, they are occurring with far too great frequency, it turns out we had warning signals.
It turns out we knew something was wrong.
It turns out some dot wasn't connected, and so the first thing we have to do is make sure that everyone and every responsible agency is attuned to all of these possibilities and symptoms.
We even had warnings about the Boston Marathon bombers, and yet the dots weren't connected.
So we need to get on a different mindset.
Secondly, I certainly support that we need to tear down cyber walls, not on a mass basis, but on a targeted basis.
But let me just say that we also need down -- to tear down the cyber walls that China is erecting, that Russia is erecting.
We need to be very well aware of the fact that China and Russia are using technology to attack us, just as ISIS is using technology to recruit those who would murder American citizens.
I do not believe that we need to wholesale destroy every American citizen's privacy in order to go after those that we know are suspect or are -- are already a problem.
But yes, there is more collaboration required between private sector companies and the public sector.
And specifically, we know that we could have detected and repelled some of these cyber attacks if that collaboration had been permitted.
A law has been sitting -- languishing, sadly, on Capitol Hill and has not yet been passed, and it would help.
I absolutely would call on them to collaborate and cooperate, yes.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's a complicated situation, but some things are black and white.
On day one in the Oval Office, I would make two phone calls.
The first one would be to my good friend, Bibi Netanyahu, to reassure him we will stand with the State of Israel.
The second will be to the supreme leader of Iran.
He might not take my phone call, but he would get the message, and the message is this: Until you open every nuclear and every military facility to full, open, anytime/anywhere, for real, inspections, we are going to make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system.
I hope Congress says no to this deal.
But realistically, even if they do, the money is flowing.
China and Russia have never been on our side of the table.
The Europeans have moved on.
We have to stop the money flow.
And by the way, as important as those two phone calls are, they are also very important because they say this.
America is back in the leadership business.
And when America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation.
Yes, our allies are not perfect.
But Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxies.
Let me tell you what I would do immediately, day two in the Oval Office.
I would hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies, not to talk them into this lousy deal with Iran, but to say to them, "what is it that you need to defeat ISIL?"
You know, Obama has presented the American people with a false choice every time.
It's what I've done or not done, or it's war.
It is a false choice.
King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I've known for a long time, has been asking for bombs and materiel.
We have not provided them.
He has gone to China.
The Kurds have been asking us to arm them for three years.
We haven't done so.
The Egyptians have asked us to share intelligence.
We're not doing it.
We have Arab allies.
They are not perfect.
I know every one.
But they need to see leadership, support and resolve from the United States of America, and we can help them defeat ISIS.
I agree with my colleagues.
We need to begin by undoing -- I would begin by undoing a whole set of things that President Obama has done, whether it's illegal amnesty or this latest round of EPA regulations.
But let me go back to something that's very important.
We have been debating right here the core difference between conservatism and progressivism.
Conservatives, I am a conservative because I believe no one of us is any better than any other one of us.
Every one of us is gifted by God, whether it is those poor babies being picked over or it's someone whose life is tangled up in a web of dependence.
Progressives don't believe that.
They believe some are smarter than others, some are better than others, so some are going to need to take care of others.
That is the fight we have to have, and we have to undo a whole set of things that President Obama has done that get at the heart of his disrespect and disregard for too many Americans.
This is a great nation.
It is a unique nation in all of human history and on the face of the planet, because here, our founders believed that everyone has a right to fulfill their potential and that that right --they called it life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness -- comes from God and cannot be taken away by government.
We have arrived at a point in our nation's history where the potential of this nation and too many Americans is being crushed by the weight, the power, the cost, the complexity, the ineptitude, the corruption of the federal government, and only someone who will challenge the status quo of Washington, D.C. can lead the resurgence of this great nation.
Hillary Clinton lies about Benghazi, she lies about e- mails.
She is still defending Planned Parenthood, and she is still her party's frontrunner.
2016 is going to be a fight between conservatism, and a Democrat party that is undermining the very character of this nation.
We need a nominee who is going to throw every punch, not pull punches, and someone who cannot stumble before he even gets into the ring.
I am not a member of the political class.
I am a conservative; I can win this job, I can do this job, I need your help, I need your support.
I will, with your help and support, lead the resurgence of this great nation.
I would say the message that got us the win in Iowa and 10 other states against pretty overwhelming odds, is the message that's going to deliver us in this election.
I've got a track record.
The reason I did so well last time is not just because of the vision, it's because I have a track record in Washington, D.C. of getting things done.
Iran sanctions -- the Iran sanctions that brought them to the table, those are sanctions that we put in place when I was in the United States Senate, and a whole host of other things that put me in a position of saying, I not only have a great vision, but I can govern effectively in Washington.
My father was born in Italy, and shortly after he was born my grandfather immigrated to this country.
And under the laws of this country, he wasn't allowed to be with his father for seven years.
Spent the first seven years of his life in Fascist Italy, under Benito Mussolini.
Not a very pleasant place to be.
I asked my dad after -- obviously, when I found out about this.
And I said, "Didn't you resent America for not letting you be with your father in those formative and very threatening years?"
You know what he said to me?
"America was worth the wait."
We're a country of laws, Bill.
We're a country of laws, not of men, not of people who do whatever they want to do.
I know we have a president who wants to do whatever he wants to do, and take his pen and his phone and just tell everybody what he thinks is best.
But the reason America is a great country, the reason is because our compassion is in our laws.
And when we live by those laws and we treat everybody equally under the law, that's when people feel good about being Americans.
We're going to be tough at the border, we're going to be tough on all of the illegal immigrants that everybody else in this field -- we're going to be different.
We're going to be actually out there trying to create a better life for hard-working Americans.
I think it's -- yeah, I think it's a one-two punch.
Number one, we have to create better paying jobs.
I mean, that's just the bottom line.
We haven't.
And that's the reason that I've said under my presidency, we'll create jobs and make American the number one manufacturing country in the world.
If we want to create jobs for the folks that you're talking about, who are having trouble getting off government benefits, primarily because of their low skill level, there is no better way -- it's worked for 100 years in America -- putting people back to work in manufacturing is it.
I'm going to be introducing a plan which I call the 2020 Perfect Vision for America.
It's a 20 percent flat rate tax, it'll take a blowtorch to the -- to the IRS.
It will create a manufacturing juggernaut in this country.
And you combine that with reforms of our welfare system.
You're looking at the -- at the man who introduced and fought on the floor as a freshman senator and passed the Welfare Reform Act of 1996 over two President Clinton vetoes.
Got 70 votes in the United States Senate.
Bipartisan issue.
And I ended a federal entitlement.
Never been done before, never been done since.
What we need to do is take the rest of the federal entitlements, not just welfare, but food stamps and Medicaid and housing programs and do the same thing we did with welfare.
Work requirements and time limits.
That will change everything.
We're going to suspend -- I've -- I've said this for four years.
We're going to suspend and repeal every executive order, every regulation that cost American jobs and is -- is -- is impacting our freedom.
And second, the First Amendment Defense Act, which is protecting religious liberty, if it's not passed by then, which I suspect it won't, because the president will veto it, I will institute an executive order to make sure that people of faith are not being -- not being harassed and persecuted by the federal government for standing up for the religious beliefs.
I came to Washington, D.C. in 1990.
That sounds like a long time ago.
It was.
It was 25 years ago, and I came by defeating the Democratic incumbent.
I came as a reformer.
I started the Gang of Seven, and it led to the overtaking of the 40-year Democratic rule of Congress, because I didn't -- I stood up to the old-boy network in Washington, D.C. because I believed that Washington was not the solution, that Washington was the problem, just like Ronald Reagan said.
I was a child of Ronald Reagan.
And I went there, and for 16 years, I fought the insiders and was able to get things done.
That's the difference.
We need to elect someone who will stand with the American people, who understands its greatness, who understands what an open economy and freedom is all about, but at the same time, has a record of being able to get things done in Washington like we've never seen before.
Reforms, everything from moral and cultural issues to economic issues.
Those of you health savings accounts.
Health savings accounts are something that we introduced.
It's a private-sector solution that believes in freedom, not Obamacare that believes in government control.
Those are the things we brought, and we were able to get things done.
If you want someone who's not going to divide Washington, but gets things done, then you should make me your president.
I'll tell you how optimistic I am about America.
Karen and I have seven children.
You don't have seven children and bring them into this world if you're not optimistic about the future of this country.
I am, but people are upset, and they're upset for a reason about the future of this country.
Donald Trump actually seized on it when he talked about immigration.
And I think the reason he did is because immigration is sort of an example of what's broken and what's wrong in Washington, D..C.
You see, you have one side, the Democrats, and with immigration, all they care about is votes.
They don't care about American workers, they just care about bringing as many people in so they can get as many votes as they can.
ON the other side, you have so many Republicans, and what do they care about?
Helping business make profits.
There's nobody out there looking out for the American worker.
I'm looking out for the American worker.
I'm the only one on this stage who has a plan that's actually reduced -- actually going to reduce immigration.
Actually going to do something to help the American worker.
And you combine that with a plan to make manufacturing -- this country number one in manufacturing, you've got someone who's going to help revitalize and give hope to America, the place -- the place is that is the most hopeless today.
That's why I ask for your support for president.
Well, first of all, thank you all for having us.
You know, I won two record elections.
Last time I was elected governor, won a record margin in my state.
Martha, we got a lot of politicians that will kiss babies, cut ribbons, do whatever it takes to be popular.
That's not why I ran for office.
I ran for office to make the generational changes in Louisiana.
We've cut 26 percent of our budget.
We have 30,000 fewer state bureaucrats than the day I took office.
I don't think anybody has cut that much government anywhere, at any time.
As a result, eight credit upgrades; as a result, a top ten state for private sector job creation.
And we fought for statewide school choice, where the dollars follow the child, instead of the child following the dollars.
We've been the most pro-life state six years in a row.
My point is this: I won two landslide elections, I made big changes.
I think our country is tired of the politicians who simply read the polls and fail to lead.
Both Democrats and Republicans have gotten us in the mess we're in -- $18 trillion of debt, a bad deal with Iran, we're not staying with Israel.
I think the American people are look for real leadership.
That's what I've done in Louisiana, that's what I'll do in America.
Well, to start with, unlike President Obama, I'll actually name the enemy that we confront.
We've got a president who cannot bring himself to say the words "radical Islamic terrorism."
Now, Bill, he loves to criticize America, apologize for us, criticize medieval Christians.
How can we beat an enemy if our commander-in-chief doesn't have the moral honesty and clarity to say that Islam has a problem, and that problem is radical Islam, to say they've got to condemn not generic acts of violence, but the individual murderers who are committing these acts of violence.
We've got a president who instead says, we're going to change hearts and minds.
Well, you know what?
Sometimes you win a war by killing murderous, evil terrorists.
We're going to take the political handcuffs off the military.
We will arm and train the Kurds.
We will work with our Sunni allies.
They know we will be committed to victory.
We had this failed red line with Assad and it discouraged folks that want to help us on the ground.
Finally, we'll take off the political handcuffs.
We'll go to the Congress.
This president has gone to Congress and said give me a three-year deadline, give me a ban on ground troops.
I'm going to go to the commanders and say give me a plan to win.
You can't send your troops into harm's way unless you give them every opportunity to be successful.
Well, this goes to the question you were just asking.
Look, under President Obama and Secretary Clinton, they're working hard to change the American dream into the European nightmare.
They do celebrate more dependence on the government.
Give Bernie Sanders credit.
At least he's honest enough to call himself a socialist.
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, they're no better.
If we were to expand Medicaid, for every uninsured person we would cover, we'd kick more than one person out of private insurance or remove their opportunity to get private insurance.
We're going to have too many people in the cart rather than pulling the cart.
This isn't free money.
I know some people like to say, "well, this is free money."
We pay federal taxes.
We are borrowing money from China today.
The president of the United States admitting that he's weakening our government's position, our foreign policy standing, because he can't control spending in D.C..
I don't -- look, I don't think anybody should be expanding Medicaid.
I think it's a mistake to create new and more expensive entitlement programs when we can't afford the ones we've got today.
We've got to stop this culture of government dependence.
I'll say this.
I don't think anybody should expand Medicaid.
I think it was a mistake to expand Medicaid everywhere in Ohio and across the country.
Well, a couple of things.
Planned Parenthood had better hope that Hillary Clinton wins this election, because I guarantee under President Jindal, January 2017, the Department of Justice and the IRS and everybody else that we can send from the federal government will be going in to Planned Parenthood.
This is absolutely disgusting, and revolts the conscience of the nation.
Absolutely, we need to defund Planned Parenthood.
In my own state, for example, we launched an investigation, asked the FBI to cooperate.
We just, earlier this week, kicked them out of Medicaid in Louisiana as well, canceled their provider contract.
They don't provide any abortions in Louisiana.
But in terms of shutting down the government, I don't think President Obama should choose to shut down the government simply to send taxpayer dollars to this group that has been caught, I believe, breaking the law, but also offending our values and our ethics.
It is time for Republicans in D.C. to fight.
Too often, they give up, they negotiate with themselves.
They said they would get rid of the unconstitutional amnesty.
They didn't do that.
They said they would repeal Obamacare if we gave them the majority.
They didn't do that either.
They said they'd shrink and balance the budget.
They haven't done that.
Absolutely, they should fight to fund -- defund Planned Parenthood, and I don't think the president should shut down the government simply to send our taxpayer dollars to this group.
To repeal these unconstitutional illegal orders, whether it's amnesty or whether it's this president going around the Congress, whether it's in Obamacare, to restore the rule of law.
I'd also go after these sanctuary cities, do everything we can to make sure that we are not -- that we are actually prosecuting and cutting off funding for cities that are harboring illegal aliens, and then finally making sure the IRS is not going after conservative or religious groups.
I would sign an executive order protecting religious liberty, our first amendment rights, so Christian business owners and individuals don't face discrimination for having a traditional view of marriage.
You know, we've got a lot of great talkers running for president.
We've already got a great talker in the White House.
We cannot afford four more years of on the job training.
We need a doer, not a talker.
We also need a nominee, a candidate who will endorse our own principles.
Jeb Bush says we've got to be willing to lose the primary in order to win the general.
Let me translate that for you.
That's the establishment telling us to hide our conservative principles to get the left and the media to like us.
That never works.
If we do that again, we will lose again, we will deserve to lose again.
One principle, for example, we've got to embrace is on immigration.
We must insist on assimilation -- immigration without assimilation is an invasion.
We need to tell folks who want to come here, they need to come here legally.
They need to learn English, adopt our values, roll up their sleeves and get to work.
I'm tired of the hyphenated Americans and the division.
I've got the backbone, I've got the band width, I've got the experience to get us through this.
I'm asking folks not just to join my campaign, but join a cause.
It is time to believe in America again.
MACCALLUM: Thank you, Governor.
You can trust me to do the following: that when I get on change with Hillary Clinton, we won't be debating about the science, we'll be debating about the solutions.
In her world, cap- and-trade would dominate, that we will destroy the economy in the name of helping the environment.
In my world, we'll focus on energy independence and a clean environment.
A healthy environment, a strong economy and energy independent America -- that would be the purpose of my presidency, is break the strangle hold that people enjoy on fossil fuels who hate our guts.
If we don't stop them over there, they are coming here just as sure as I stand here in front of you.
One thing I want to be clear about tonight.
If you're running for president of the United States and you don't understand that we need more American ground forces in Iraq and that America has to be part of a regional ground force that will go into Syria and destroy ISIL in Syria, then you're not ready to be commander in chief.
And you're not serious about destroying ISIL.
According to the generals that I know and trust, this air campaign will not destroy ISIL.
We need a ground force in Iraq and Syria, and America has to be part of that ground force.
According to the FBI and the director of national intelligence, Syria's becoming a perfect platform to strike our nation.
I've got a very simple strategy as your president against ISIL.
Whatever it takes, as long as it takes, to defeat them.
I don't think it's a war on women for all of us as Americans to stand up and stop harvesting organs from little babies.
Let's take the money that we would give to Planned Parenthood and put it in women's health care without having to harvest the organs of the unborn.
The only way we're going to defund Planned Parenthood is have a pro-life president.
You want to see a war on women?
Come with me to Iraq and Afghanistan, folks.
I've been there 35 times.
I will show you what they do to women.
These mythical Arab armies that my friends talk about that are going to protect us don't exist.
If I am president of the United States, we're going to send soldiers back to Iraq, back to Syria, to keep us from being attacked here and keep soldiers in Afghanistan because we must.
I cannot tell you how much our nation is threatened and how we need a commander in chief who understands the threats to this nation.
If you're running for president of the United States and you do not understand that we cannot defend this nation without more of our soldiers over there, you are not ready for this job.
Change the Mexico City policy, not take one dime of taxpayer money to fund abortion organizations overseas, and restore the NSA that's been gutted.
We're going dark when it comes to detecting the next attack.
We have gutted our ability to detect the next attack.
And I would not stand for that as president of the United States.
I would take the fight to these guys, whatever it took, as long as it took.
First thing I'd tell the American people, whatever it takes to defend our nation, I would do.
To the 1 percent who have been fighting this war for over a decade, I'd try my best to be a commander-in-chief worthy of your sacrifice.
We're going to lose Social Security and Medicare if Republicans and Democrats do not come together and find a solution like Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill.
I will be the Ronald Reagan if I can find a Tip O'Neill.
When I was 21, my mom died.
When I was 22, my dad died.
We owned a liquor store, restaurant, bar and we lived in the back.
Every penny we needed from -- every penny we got from Social Security, because my sister was a minor, we needed.
Today, I'm 60, I'm not married, I don't have any kids.
I would give up some Social Security to save a system that Americans are going to depend on now and in the future.
Half of American seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check.
If you make your president, I'm going to put the country ahead of the party.
I'm going to do what it takes to defend this nation.
This nation has been great to me, and that's the only way I know to pay you back.
Not the change we need at a time we need it.
We need somebody ready to be commander-in-chief on day one, who understands there are no moderates in Iran, they've been killed a long time ago.
That the Ayatollah is a radical jihadist who really means it when he chants, "Death to America, death to Israel."
And this deal is giving him a pathway to a bomb, a missile to deliver it, and money to pay for it all.
We need a president who can solve our problems, bring us together.
We're becoming Greece if we don't work together.
At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, our best days are ahead of us only if we work together, and I intend to put this country on a path of success by working together and doing the hard things that should have been done a very long time ago.
I think he means somebody who hasn't been a career politician, and who's been out of office for awhile.
I think the last eight years in the private sector have allowed me to see government from the outside, and I think that is a positive thing.
Yes, I thought about running four years ago.
I was ready to lead, but I wasn't ready to run.
But I look at this country today, and I look at how divided we are, I look at how politicians are always posturing and issuing sound bites but never solving problems.
What I did in New York was bring people together, an overwhelmingly Democratic state.
But I was able to get Democrats to support the most conservative sweeping policy changes in any state in America.
And when I look at Washington today, we need to bring us together.
We need to solve problems, we need to rebuild our military so we can stand up to radical Islam, we need to get our economy growing much faster by throwing out the corrupt tax code and lowering the rates.
We have to end crony capitalism in Washington, where the lobbyists and the powerful can get tax breaks and tax credits, and the American people don't get laws in their interest.
I can do that.
And I can do it regardless of what the makeup of Congress is because I did it in New York state.
So we need new leadership -- yes.
I will be that new leader.
Martha, religious liberty doesn't include encouraging a fellow American to engage in violent jihad and kill an American here.
That is not protected free speech.
That is not protected religious belief.
That is like shouting "fire" in a crowded theater, and that is illegal, and I would do everything in our power not just to go after those who are here who we know who are here, before they can radicalize other Americans to carry out attacks, and it's not just the ones they've arrested.
Think back to Garland, Texas.
But for that Texas police officer, we could have had a mass murder.
We have to shut down their internet capability.
We have to shut down, whether or not they're in prisons preaching or on -- in mosques preaching.
No radical Islam that is allowed to engage in encouraging violence against Americans, that is not protected speech.
Let me just add one thing about ISIS over there.
We have got to destroy their training camps and recruiting centers.
I was governor of New York on September 11.
I know that we are at greater risk today than at any time since then of another attack.
We have got to destroy their training camps over there before they can attack us here.
I don't agree that we're going to occupy and spend another decade or a trillion dollars.
What we need to do is destroy their ability to attack us here over there, and then get out.
You know, I have two sons.
Both served.
One as a marine officer in Iraq, one as an army officer in Afghanistan.
I do not see -- want to see one parent or loved one worrying about getting a call in the middle of the night.
I would not place one American life at risk unless it was absolutely necessary.
But to destroy ISIS, it is necessary.
I think he is right.
I don't think you expand entitlements when so many people are dependent on government and when the money the federal government is offering is going to be taken away from you after just a couple of years.
I changed that.
We put in place mandatory work fair (ph).
But we allowed people to keep health care.
We put in place child care support.
No, it should be repealed.
And by the way, when I left, there were over 1 million fewer people on welfare in New York state than when I took office... ... replacing dependency with opportunity.
My heart has not changed, because I've always been appalled by abortion.
I'm a Catholic, I believe life begins at conception.
But as Bill said earlier, Roe v. Wade, it's has been the law for 42 years, and I don't think we should continue to try to change it.
But we can do is defund Planned Parenthood, and by the way, put in place an absolute permanent ban on any taxpayer dollars ever being used to fund abortions.
Also, when you look at these videos, they are horrific and show just a hideous disrespect for life.
What else we can do is that we should believe in science.
You know, Hillary Clinton's always saying how Republicans don't follow science?
Well, they're the ones not listening to the scientists today, because doctors say that at 20 weeks that is a viable life inside the womb.
And at that point, it's a life that we have the right to protect, and I think we should protect.
So, I would pass legislation outlawing abortion after 20 weeks.
It is Hillary, it is Biden, it is the others who insist on allowing abortion well into viable (inaudible) wrong, and that should be stopped.
Bill, I defeated Mario Cuomo.
In the first day in office, my first executive order, I revoked every one of the executive orders that he had -- he had enacted over the prior 12 years.
I would do that to Barack Obama's executive orders.
But I'd sign a second one, as I did in New York, as well, having a hard hiring freeze on adding new employees except for the military or defense-related positions.
I'd sign that executive order.
When I left the workforce, New York State had been reduced by over 15 percent.
We can do that in Washington.
I will do that in Washington.
Divisive and with no vision.
No vision at all.
HEMMER: Wow.
Carly Fiorina.
My background is different.
I look at Washington, and I hear the talk, and I see the promises and it seems nothing ever changes.
Washington gets bigger, taxes get higher, and the American people feel more distance from our government.
I have the opportunity not just to run, but to win in the deep blue state of New York three times.
And not only did I win, but I then worked with a Democratic legislature to put in place the most sweeping conservative reforms of any state in America, taking us from the most dangerous state in America to the fourth safest; reducing our welfare rolls by over 1 million, and replacing over 700,000 private sector jobs.
I can govern by bringing people together.
And also, I've been tested in a way no one else has.
I was governor on September 11th, and I'm proud of my leadership in bringing New York through that time.
And when I left, we were stronger, we were safer, and we were more united than at any time in my lifetime.
We need to bring people together in Washington.
The talk has got to stop, the action has got to begin.
People can promise you something, I delivered in the blue state of New York.
I will deliver for the American people if I have the privilege of leading this country.
I think the times are different now.
I think the times are much more serious.
Because Obama and Clinton policies, the United States is moving further and further into a decline.
I want to reverse that decline.
That's why I've entered this race, and I think I have the experience to do it.
Former elected prosecutor, attorney general, governor, I was elected to all of those offices.
A person who, in fact, has a long experience in foreign-policy issues, which is different from many of the other governors and prospective governors who are running.
I was an Army intelligence agent and a veteran during the Cold War, assigned to West Germany.
I was the chairman of the National Commission on Homeland Security and Terrorism for the United States for five years.
I was a person who has dealt extensively with these homeland security issues.
I was a governor during the 9/11 attack.
I understand both of these issues, how to build the economy and doing that as a governor who'd built jobs, had cut taxes and also a governor who understands foreign-policy, and that's why I entered this race.
Well, yes, indeed.
I chaired the National Commission on Homeland Security Committee for United States.
We warned about the 9/11 attack before the 9/11 attack occurred.
I was the governor during the 9/11 attack when the Pentagon was struck.
And I'm going to tell you this, we need to use the benefit of our law enforcement people across this country, combined with our intelligence people across this country.
We need to use our technological advantages, because what we've warned of is an international guerrilla movement that threatens this country.
It's going to happen in this country, there are going to be further attacks.
We have to be prepared to defend the American people, prepare them for a long war, stand up for the defense of this country, and stand up for the values of this country...
I'll tell them that we're going to grow the economy so that we can give people better opportunities so they don't have to rely exclusively on benefit types of programs.
Some do, but many Americans are dying to have an opportunity to grow and to create something inside this economy.
And I'm glad that I have a chance to answer this question.
I've had the growth code (ph) there for about five years, and it's this specific program.
We're going to do a tax cut for all Americans.
We're going to have a three-bracket tax code, 10, 15 and 25 percent.
We're going to combine all commercial activity in business into one place in the tax code and charge it 15 percent, which is going to suddenly make us competitive with the rest of the world.
And we're going to eliminate the death tax.
With a couple of additional tweaks, we know what this will do.
It will cause the economy to grow, to explode, to create more jobs.
And first of all, we've got to recognize that there is problem that Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton have caused.
And that problem is too big regulations like the EPA, too much new taxes on business that we have seen and "Obamacare."
These are drags on the economy, it's a deliberate drag.
I propose to reverse that and get this economy moving again.
Well, as you know, I'm a former elected prosecutor, a former elected attorney general, trained at the University of Virginia in constitutional law, and I don't believe in litmus tests except this.
I believe we should be appointing Supreme Court justices who will follow the law and not try to make the law.
Now, the challenge we're seeing today is that the Supreme Court is being converted into some type of political body.
They have to have some legal basis and precedence for being able to follow the law instead of making the law up, and my goal is -- in appointing Supreme Court justices, would be to point -- to appoint justices who would follow the law.
Bill, I want to say one more thing about... Not -- not on that, no.
But let me say one more thing.
I want to -- before my time runs out I want to get back to this issue of ISIS versus Iran.
It is Iran that's the expansionist power.
ISIL is trying to create themselves into a new state.
Our job has to be to recognize the conflict between the two.
I have proposed there be a Middle East NATO so that we can combine our allies there to stand up to Iranian expansion, and at the same time join together to begin to stop and this ISIL thing before it becomes an actual state.
Well, it's not a matter of what the first executive order would be, Bill.
The matter is what orders exist now that shouldn't exist?
The president has done an executive order with respect to illegal immigration that is illegal.
Illegal.
And it creates a -- a contempt for the law, for the rule of law.
If i were the president of the United States, I would go and look at every executive order that exists right now and determine which ones want to be voided, because the president shouldn't be legislating: not through that vehicle or any other.
We should be relying upon the leadership of the Congress to pass the laws.
Professional politician that can't be trusted.
Well, I was a conservative governor of Virginia, I governed that way, and that's my track record.
But the key thing that we're seeing now is serious challenges to this country that must change, the direction of this nation must change.
And that's why I've offered a specific program to the people of America tonight to address the fundamental problem of getting our country growing again, getting our economy growing, wages up, opportunities for people.
And second, the international crisis we are facing is most dreadful and most dangerous.
I have the experience as a prosecutor, attorney general, governor, United States Army intelligence veteran, governor during the 9/11 attack, chairman of the Terrorism Commission for this country.
It's time for real substance and real experience.
And that's what I'll offer to the people of the United States in this candidacy for the presidency.
Good evening, everyone.
I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky.
My wife, Kelly, and I have been married for nearly 25 years, and I spend my days defending the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
I think there's nothing more important than understanding that the Constitution restrains government, not the people.
I kind of have to laugh when I think of, "Mmm, sounds like a non sequitur."
He was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons, and all of a sudden, there's a sideways attack at me.
I think that really goes to really the judgment.
Do we want someone with that kind of character, that kind of careless language to be negotiating with Putin?
Do we want someone like that to be negotiating with Iran?
I think really there's a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr. Trump, but I am worried.
I'm very concerned about him -- having him in charge of the nuclear weapons, because I think his response, his -- his visceral response to attack people on their appearance -- short, tall, fat, ugly -- my goodness, that happened in junior high.
Are we not way above that?
Would we not all be worried to have someone like that in charge of the nuclear arsenal?
I think this goes back to essentially what we've been saying for the last two or three questions.
Carly Fiorina also said we're not going to talk with Putin.
Well, think if Reagan had said that during the Cold War?
We continued to talk with the Russians throughout the Cold War which is much more significant that where we are now.
Should we continue to talk with Iran?
Yes.
Should we cut up the agreement immediately?
That's absurd.
Wouldn't you want to know if they complied?
Now, I'm going to vote against the agreement because I don't think there's significant leverage, but it doesn't mean that I would immediately not look at the agreement, and cut it up without looking to see if whether or not Iran has complied.
The same goes with China.
I don't think we need to be rash, I don't think we need to be reckless, and I think need to leave lines of communication open.
Often we talk about whether we should be engaged in the world, or disengaged in the world, and I think this is an example of some who want to isolate us, actually, and not be engaged.
We do need to be engaged with Russia.
It doesn't mean we give them a free pass, or China a free pass, but, to be engaged, to continue to talk.
We did throughout the Cold War, and it would be a big mistake not to do it here.
Well, I hate to say it, but Donald Trump has a bit of a point here.
The case that was decided around 1900 was, people had a green card, were here legally, and they said that their children were citizens.
There's never been a direct Supreme Court case on people who were here illegally, whether or not their kids are citizens.
So it hasn't really been completely adjudicated.
The 14th Amendment says that "those who are here and under the jurisdiction."
The original author of the -- of the 14th Amendment said on the Senate floor that this was applying to slaves, and did not specifically apply to others.
Well, I'm glad we're having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that we lose jobs overseas, we have.
Our companies, and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70,000 page tax code, so, that's why I've chosen to get rid of the whole thing, and have one single rate, 14 and a-half percent for everybody, business, and for corporate income, and personal income.
But, we also get rid of the payroll tax, so the working class would get a tax break as well.
So, I think a flat tax, eliminating the tax code, getting rid of all the loopholes, is the way to go, and it's the way we get America going again.
Hugh, can I -- can I make a response to that?
Can I make a response to that?
May I make a response to that?
He's referred to me... ... in his remarks.
May I make a response?
The remark was made that there hadn't been anyone else on the podium opposed to the Iraq War.
I've made my career as being an opponent of the Iraq War.
I was opposed to the Syria war.
I was opposed to arming people who are our enemies.
Iran is now stronger because Hussein is gone.
Hussein was the great bulwark and counterbalance to the Iranians.
So when we complain about the Iranians, you need to remember that the Iraq War made it worse.
Originally, Governor Bush was asked, was the Iraq War a mistake, and he said, "No.
We'd do it again."
We have to learn sometimes the interventions backfire.
The Iraq War backfired and did not help us.
We're still paying the repercussions of a bad decision.
We have make the decision now in Syria, should we topple Assad?
Many up here wanted to topple Assad, and it's like -- I said no, because if you do... ... ISIS will now be in charge of Syria...
If you want boots on the ground, and you want them to be our sons and daughters, you got 14 other choices.
There will always be a Bush or Clinton for you, if you want to go back to war in Iraq.
But the thing is, the first war was a mistake.
And I'm not sending our sons and our daughters back to Iraq.
The war didn't work.
We can amplify those who live there.
The Kurds deserve to be armed and I'll arm them.
We can use our Air Force to amplify the forces there.
But the boots on the ground need to be the people who live there.
Why are we always the world's patsies that we have to go over there and fight their wars for them?
They need to fight their wars, we need to defend American interests, but it is not in America's national security interests to have another war in Iraq.
I think one of the great problems, and what American people don't like about politics, is hypocrisy.
People have one standard for others and not for them -- for themselves.
There is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they smoked pot in high school, and yet the people going to -- to jail for this are poor people, often African-Americans and often Hispanics, and yet the rich kids who use drugs aren't.
I personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the individual, and I think that America has to take a different attitude.
I would like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration.
I'm a fan of the drug courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail.
But the bottom line is the states.
We say we like the 10th Amendment, until we start talking about this.
And I think the federal government has gone too far, I think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome, and really has been something that has really damaged our inner cities.
Not only do the drugs damage them, we damage them again by incarcerating them and then preventing them from getting employment over time.
So I don't think that the federal government should override the states.
I believe in the 10th Amendment and I really will say that the states are left to themselves.
Well, I think if we left it open, we could see how many people smoked pot in high school.
Well, you know, the thing is that... Yeah, I was talking about (inaudible) -- well, let me...
But let me respond.
The thing is, is that in Florida, Governor Bush campaigned against medical marijuana.
That means that a small child like Morgan Hintz (ph) that has seizures is day, is failing on non-traditional medications, is not allowed to use cannabis oil.
And if they do that in Florida, they will take the child away, they will put the parents in jail.
And that's what that means if you're against allowing people use medical marijuana, you'll actually put them in jail.
And actually, under the current circumstances, kids who had privilege like you do, don't go to jail, but the poor kids in our inner cities go to jail.
I don't think that's fair.
And I think we need to acknowledge it, and it is hypocritical to still want to put poor people in jail... BUSH: I don't want to put poor people in jail, Randy.
Well, you vote -- you oppose medical marijuana...
But that means you'll put people in jail.
Understand what they're saying.
if they're going to say we are going to enforce the federal law against what the state law is, they aren't really believing in the Tenth Amendment.
Governor Christie would go into Colorado, and if you're breaking any federal law on marijuana, even though the state law allows it, he would put you in jail.
If a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical marijuana for seizure treatment, he would put her in jail, if it violates federal law.
I would let Colorado do what the Tenth Amendment says.
This power -- we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level.
Crime was supposed to be left to the states.
Colorado has made their decision.
And I don't want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail, who are trying to get medicine for their kid... May I respond?
May I respond?
Here is the thing, he doesn't want to make it about medical marijuana, but what if New Jersey's medical marijuana contradicts the federal law?
He's saying he'll send the federal government in, and he will enforce the federal law.
That's not consistent with the Tenth Amendment.
It is not consistent with states' rights.
And it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country.
I don't think we should be sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their child for seizures.
If you want a skeptic -- if you want a skeptic, Jake, I will happily jump into that briar patch.
If you want a real... A second opinion?
One of the greatest -- one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was -- were the vaccines, particularly for smallpox.
And if you want to read a story, it's called The Speckled Monster, it's an amazing story, it was all done voluntary.
But people came in by the droves.
George Washington wouldn't let his wife visit until she got vaccinated.
So I'm all for vaccines.
But I'm also for freedom.
Ooh, that's a tough one.
You know, I'm big on -- that we were -- and I love what Carly said about women's suffrage.
I think Susan B. Anthony might be a good choice.
I met Ronald Reagan as a teenager, and my family, we're big supporters of him when he ran against Gerald Ford.
It was a big deal because he was the grassroots, running against the establishment, and I'll never forget that.
And, how he stood up and said, you know what, this is something new that our country needs, and our party needs.
If I were president, I would try to be one who says, you know what, I'm a Reagan Conservative.
I'm someone who believes in peace through strength, and I would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace, and that war is the last resort, not the first resort.
And, that when we go to war, we go to war in a constitutional way, which means that we have to vote on it, that war is initiated by congress, not by the president, that we go to war electively (ph).
That when we go to war, we don't fight with one arm tied behind our back, we fight all out to win, but then we come home.
I'm Mike Huckabee.
I'm delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow Republicans.
I know that there are some in the Wall-Street-to-Washington axis of power who speak of all of us contemptuously.
But I'm here to say that I think we are, in fact, the A team.
We have some remarkable people, and, in fact, not only are we the A team; we even have our own Mr. T, who doesn't mind saying about others, "you're a fool."
And I'm delighted to be here with all of these guys, and would put any of them in an administration that I led.
Thank you very much.
I would certainly love to get in on this, because I think the single...
I've been patiently waiting, and I'm going to just say this about Iran.
This threatens Israel immediately, this threatens the entire Middle East, but it threatens the United States of America.
And we can't treat a nuclear Iranian government as if it is just some government that would like to have power.
This is a government for 36 years has killed Americans, they kidnapped Americans, they have maimed Americans.
They have sponsored terrorist groups, Hamas and Hezbollah, and they threaten the very essence of Western civilization.
To give them this agreement, that the president treats like the Magna Carta, but Iranians treat it like it's toilet paper, and we must, simply, make it very clear that the next president, one of us on this stage, will absolutely not honor that agreement, and will destroy it and will be tough with Iran, because otherwise, we put every person in this world in a very dangerous place.
No, no.
Let me finish this one thought, Jake.
I haven't gotten that much time, so I'm going to take just what little I can here.
You're telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected Democrat county clerk from Rowan County, Kentucky?
What else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who might be a Fort Hood shooter or a detainee at Gitmo?
I have a different idea.
I think we ought to get rid of all the taxes on people who produce.
Why should we penalize productivity?
And it's why I'm an unabashed supporter of the "fair tax," which would be a tax on our consumption, rather than a tax on our productivity.
In other words, you're not going to tax anybody for what they earn, whether it's worker whose working by the hour or whether it's a hedge fund manager.
If they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs, we need some jobs.
And I think the "fair tax" makes more sense.
Now, Jake, I've been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about I'm the only one who has done this, the only one who has done that, I've done great things.
We've all done great things or we wouldn't be on this stage.
But it occurs to me as we're sitting here in the Reagan Library that most of us would like to pay tribute to a guy who, when he got elected, didn't get elected telling everybody how great he was.
He got elected telling everybody how great the American people were.
And he empowered them to live their dreams, which is what I'd love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a gut punch right now.
...You don't want me operating on you, I assure you.
Just today -- just today, there was a new report that 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials, so that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face.
I love the idea of a good intellectual capacity to deal with our enemies, but the fact is, if you don't have good intelligence that is reliable and honest, you won't have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions.
The next president is primarily elected not just to know things, but to know what to do with the things that he knows.
And the most dangerous person in any room is the person who doesn't know what he doesn't know.
And the reason Barack Obama has been dangerous to this country and we better elect someone who had some executive experience, is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in the office who doesn't know what he does not know.
You better believe I will, because I'm tired of liberals always having a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we don't.
Well let me tell you what mine would be.
Number one, I'd ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue?
I'd want to know the answer to that.
I'd want to know do you believe in the First Amendment, do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based?
And I'd want to know do you really believe in the Second Amendment, do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family and to protect our country?
And do you believe in the Fifth and the 14th Amendment?
Do you believe that a person, before they're deprived of life and liberty, should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law?
Because if you do, you're going to do more than defund Planned Parenthood.
One final thing.
I'd make darn sure that we absolutely believe the 10th Amendment.
Every governor on this stage would share this much with you.
Every one of us -- our biggest fight wasn't always with the legislature or even with the Democrats.
My gosh, half the time, it was with the federal government who apparently never understood --
-- that if it's not reserved in the Constitution, then the 10th Amendment says it's left to the states.
But somebody forgot to send a memo to Washington.
I think we need to remember that there are maybe some controversies about autism, but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving the medical costs in this country.
And I would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and Alzheimer's, because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost.
John Kennedy said, "we'll go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back," and we did it.
I grew up in the '50s.
I remember the polio vaccine.
We saved billions of dollars since that time, because we haven't had to treat for polio.
Why doesn't this country focus on cures rather than treatment?
Why don't we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the cure for cancer, for heart disease, for diabetes and for Alzheimer's, a disease alone that will cost us --
$1.1 trillion by the year 2050.
We change the economy and the country.
That's an easy one.
I'd put my wife on there.
I've been married to her 41 years.
She's fought cancer and lived through it.
She's raised three kids, five great grandkids, and she's put up with me.
I mean, who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife.
And that way, she could spend her own money with her face.
At the end of my presidency I would like to believe that the world would be a safe place, and there wouldn't be the threats.
not only to the U.S., but to Israel and our allies, because we would have the most incredible well-trained, well-equipped, well- prepared military in the history of mankind.
And they would know that the commander-in-chief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary, but people wouldn't bully us anymore.
Because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction.
Domestically, we would be operating under a tax system that eliminated the IRS.
People wouldn't be punished for their work, and for what they produced.
And life would be really deemed precious.
Abortion would be no more.
It would be as much of a scourge in our past as slavery is.
And we would have a peaceful country, where people respected each other and people respected law enforcement.
And we would focus on cures.
And we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without, but safe from the enemies within.
And it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids.
Thank you.
My name is Marco Rubio.
I'm from Florida.
My wife Jeanette and I are the proud -- we've been married 17 years, and we're the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening.
I'm honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also our love for country.
And I'm also aware that California has a drought, and so that's why I made sure I brought my own water.
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward.
He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force.
He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union -- the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, and now he's trying to reverse that.
He's trying to destroy NATO.
And this is what this is a part of.
He is exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East.
Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly -- fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad.
He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt.
America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia.
Begin to rely on us."
What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it.
That is what is happening in the Middle East.
That's what's happening with Russia, and... Let me tell you -- I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said.
He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick.
Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks.
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win.
And we're not going to authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win.
And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that.
In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting, death to America.
I'm reminded of a great editorial cartoon.
It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, "Death to all Americans," and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, "Can we meet ya half way?"
We need a commander-in-chief who will stand up and protect this country.
And I'll tell you, I can't wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you are voting for the Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to America ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon.
Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it.
It's important.
I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well.
It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a -- escaping Cuba.
And he lived with us, growing up.
And my grandfather loved America.
He understood what was so special about this country.
He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're here this evening.
My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve.
But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in.
And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish.
And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why -- because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility.
And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me.
Not from a translator at Univision.
Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper.
Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with.
My family's immigrants.
My neighbors are all immigrants.
My in-laws are all immigrants.
So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three.
And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.
And we must deal with all three of these problems.
We cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation.
I learned that.
We tried it that way.
After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.
And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people... ... will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal.
If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay.
Yes, well, it does.
But it's in the following way, this is an important question.
I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today.
There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight.
The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military.
They hack into our computers.
They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world.
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to destroy and divide NATO.
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents.
And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home.
And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States.
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in.
And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe.
And today we are not doing that.
We are eviscerating our military.
And we have a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the prime minister of Israel.
Well, that's why we have a debate.
I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make.
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day.
Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our president could very well confront a national security crisis.
You can't predict it.
Sometimes you cannot control it.
And it is the most -- the federal government does all kinds of things it's not supposed to be doing.
It regulates bathrooms.
It regulates schools that belong to local communities.
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe.
And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office.
Trust (ph) me, I get that.
OK.
I never get to addressed, and... ...and when I do, I'm gonna jump in.
Yeah.
He did.
Let me -- I'm proud to serve in the United States Senate.
You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me.
But I'm glad I won.
And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in the wrong direction.
And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change.
And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr. Trump.
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people.
You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it.
We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in -- in -- in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again.
We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with Iran.
And these -- if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves.
That's why I'm missing votes.
Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known.
I want to go even deeper -- and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time it's ever been tried.
Syria's a perfect example of it.
The uprising in Syria was not started by the United States; it was started by the Syrian people.
And I warned at the time -- this was three and a half years ago -- I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists.
Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through, and that's exactly what happened.
That is why ISIS grew.
That is why ISIS then came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq.
What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement.
And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria... ... as you asked earlier today.
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect.
It cannot -- they require -- what they need, is they need an operating space.
That's what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida.
It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space.
That's why they had to be drawn out of there.
That's why they had to be destroyed.
It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well.
We allowed them -- we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria.
They used it as an operating space to grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.
They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well.
You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.
There's a broader issue here, Hugh.
And there's a broader issue here as well.
First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people.
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants.
The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.
The real issue -- the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence, but why are they committing the violence?
And here's the truth: Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from their economic and other wellbeing.
You cannot separate it.
You can't have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those families.
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values.
Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do.
We're not going to... Well, and I don't -- he may have lined up with their positions on this issue.
But here is the bottom line.
Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America.
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families.
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.
But America is not a planet.
And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore, China is.
And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of.
So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier.
Let me say, climate change... OK. A skeptic.
You can measure the climate.
You can measure it.
That's not the issue we're discussing.
Here is what I'm skeptical of.
I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy.
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea.
They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California.
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.
And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family.
The -- Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history.
Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history.
He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life.
He didn't just believe it, he acted on it.
That's why bringing down communism was so important to him.
If I'm honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan.
They know we stand with them.
That America can be counted on.
It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China.
I would even invite them to my inauguration.
We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia.
And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia.
And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.
I'm Ted Cruz.
I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom.
I'm a husband to my best friend, Heidi, who's here tonight.
I'm a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine.
If you're fed up with Washington, if you're looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, I'm the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back.
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran.
We've seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind.
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism.
This deal abandons four American hostages in Iran, and this deal will only accelerate Iran's acquiring nuclear weapons.
You'd better believe it.
If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
Well, let's be clear when it comes to experience.
What President Obama wants to do is he's run to the United Nations, and he wants to use the United Nations to bind the United States, and take away our sovereignty.
Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v. Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty.
And, so, if there's anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, they're giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that.
Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well.
I'd like to actually... ... respond.
I think I'm the first senator.
The No.
1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security interest of the United States.
The reason why I opposed President Obama bombing Syria, is because he couldn't answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-Nusra, like Al Qaida, like ISIS?
Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply.
Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not comply.
There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and America as the great Satan.
Jake, Jake... Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and I've listened to several folks saying, "Well, gosh, if they cheat, we'll act."
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves.
That makes no sense whatsoever.
And let me know -- President Obama is violating federal law... ... by not handing over the side deals, and we ought to see the United States Congress... ... stand up together and say, "Hand over this treaty, and protect this country."
Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, I'm proud to stand for life.
These Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying.
I would encourage every American to watch the videos.
See -- seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, "are these my values?"
Absolutely we shouldn't be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and I'll tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, "we'll give in because Obama threatens a veto."
You know, Obama's committed to his principles.
His liberal principles, he will fight for them.
He says...
I will veto any budget that doesn't fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender.
We need to stop surrendering and start standing... ...for our principles.
Well, Jake, you know, I'm -- I'm very glad that Donald Trump's being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration.
I think that's very important.
I like and respect Ben Carson.
I'll let him talk about his own plans.
But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates?
And this is an issue on which there are stark differences.
In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight.
You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders?
Well, I've been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system... Well, Dana, I've known John Roberts for 20 years, he's amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court.
He's a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome.
And, you know, we're frustrated as conservatives.
We keep winning elections, and then we don't get the outcome we want.
And, let me focus on two moments in time.
Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals.
George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter.
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals... ...George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that.
If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books.
These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life... ...and I will as president as well.
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation.
That was a mistake and I regret that.
I wouldn't have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why.
It wasn't that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, it's that it was the easier choice.
Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didn't have a long paper trail.
If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they weren't willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.
I have spent my entire life, starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists.
We have an out-of-control Court, and I give you my word, if I'm elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings -- TAPPER: Thank you, Senator.
-- imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans --
-- who need to be trusted to govern ourselves.
I -- I am not, and -- and you mentioned that the U.S. Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms.
I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory.
And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason... ...
I was honored to be endorsed by Gun Owners of America... ... as the strongest supporter of the Second Amendment on this stage today, and I will... ... fight every day to defend the Bill of Rights.
Well, I wouldn't change the $10 bill, I'd change the $20.
I'd take Jackson off and I'd leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers.
And I very much agree with Marco that it should be Rosa Parks.
She was a principled pioneer that helped change this country, helped remedy racial injustice, and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate.
You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba (ph), and I'll tell you, I'd go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel.
If I'm elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them.
the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem.
Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with.
ISIS will be defeated.
We will have a president willing to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism," and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons.
Here at home, we'll reignite the promise of America.
Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities.
How will that happen?
Through tax reform.
We'll pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS.
And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
You want to know what I'll do as president?
It is real simple.
We'll kill the terrorists, we'll repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
Hi, I'm Ben Carson, and I'm a retired pediatric neurosurgeon.
I'm here with my wife, Candy, of 40 years, and two of my sons, and their wives.
I stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that I've gotten involved in this race is because I'm very concerned about the future of our children, and the direction of our country is one that does not portend well, unless we, the people, intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle.
And I just want to be -- make it clear that I'm grateful to be here with all of you again, and welcome the addition of Carly Fiorina, as well.
Typically, politicians do things that are politically expedient.
And they are looking for whatever their particular goal is.
That is not the reason that I have gotten into this thing.
I'm extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country, the divisiveness that is going on, fiscal irresponsibility, the failure to take a leadership position in the world.
All of those things will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that we've had now.
So I don't -- I don't want to really get into describing who's a politician and who's not a politician, but I think the people have kind of made that decision for themselves already, and will continue to do so as time goes on.
Jake, can I say something about that?
You know, when I entered this race, all the political pundits said it's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money.
And there's no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully.
I in no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires.
I have said to the people if they want me to do this, please get involved.
And we now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in.
But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people.
And they are really in charge.
If we don't seal the border, the rest of this stuff clearly doesn't matter.
It's kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about.
We have the ability to do it, we don't have the will to do it.
There was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence, and to repair it, they put a few strands of barb wire across.
Well, the photographers who were there with us, they wanted to photograph us from the side of the Mexicans, and they went through there, and they were not physically fit people, and they took their cameras and things with them, and shot us from the other side.
That's how easy it is to get across.
And, the drugs, I mean, it goes on, and on, and on.
ICE tells them to release these people, 67,000 criminals released... ...on to our property, it's ridiculous.
Well, I have also said, if anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to listen.
And, if they can, you know, specify exactly how that's going to be done, and what the cost, and it sounds reasonable, then I think it's worth discussing... Not exactly what I said.
Well, what I said, after we seal the borders, after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all the goodies so we don't have people coming in here, including employment, that people who had a pristine record, we should consider allowing them to become guest workers, primarily in the agricultural sphere, because that's the place where Americans don't seem to want to work.
That's what I said.
And they have a six-month period to do that.
If they don't do it within that time period, then they become illegal, and as illegals, they will be treated as such.
Can I -- can I -- can I just... Can I correct... My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons.
Number one, you know, I've talked to farmers, and they said they cannot hire Americans to do the kind of job that I'm talking about.
And the second reason is because the individuals who register as guest workers, they don't get to vote, they are not American citizens, and they don't get the rights and privileges of American citizens.
So that's key.
But the other thing that I want to bring up is, I mentioned something earlier.
I think it was just sort of glossed over.
I talked about the success in Yuma County, I mean, incredible success, and the Department of Justice said, "No, we don't want to do that.
That's too successful."
We don't have to keep reinventing the wheel.
All we have to do is look at things that work.
All we have to do is use a little common sense.
It's all about America.
You know, the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had 10, he has still got $9 billion left, that's not fair, we need to take more of his money.
That's called socialism.
That doesn't work so well.
What made America into a great nation was the fact that we said, that guy just put in $1 billion, let's create an environment that's even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in $2 billion.
And that's the kind of thing that helps us to grow.
We can't grow by continuing to take a piece of pie, and dividing it, and redistributing it.
But, I'm also looking at what doctor -- at what Governor Huckabee talked about...
The Fair Tax.
Looking at both of them, and evaluating them both, and I'm talking to the American people because one of the things we must recognize is that this country is of, for, and by the people.
And, it's really time that the government get out of the way, and let the people be the ones who decide how they want to run their country.
Well, first of all, let me say what I actually said about raising the minimum wage.
I was asked should it be raised, I said, probably, or possibly.
But, what I added, which I think is the most important thing, so, I said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down, and talk about it.
Negotiate a reasonable minimum wage, and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America.
I think we also have to have two minimum wages, a starter, and a sustaining because how are young people ever going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them... Jake, Jake...
I haven't had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy, and I just want to mention that when the war, when the issue occurred in 2003, I suggested to President Bush that he not go to war?
OK.
So I just want that on the record.
And, you know, a lot of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism.
And they refer back to our invasion of Iraq.
And they seem to think that that was what caused it.
What caused it was withdrawing from there and creating a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur.
But it is very different from what is going on today.
We're talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us.
They are an existential threat to our nation.
And we have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand.
We have to recognize we have two choices.
We either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners, or we use every resource available to us to destroy... ... them first.
Well, recognize that, you know, President George W. Bush is a great friend of ours, and we spent many wonderful days at the White House.
I haven't been there in the last seven years.
I probably have to have a food-tester.
But at any rate, I didn't suggest that nothing be done.
What I suggested to President Bush is to be Kennedy-esque, in the sense that when the Russians got ahead of us in the space race, what we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody, business, industry, academia behind a national goal to put a man on the moon and bring him back safely.
I said, you can do the same kind of thing.
Declare that within five to 10 years we will become petroleum independent.
The moderate Arab states would have been so concerned about that, they would have turned over Osama bin Laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks.
There are smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things.
And sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right solution.
I have no argument with having a strong leader, and to be aggressive where aggression is needed.
But it is not needed in every circumstance.
There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things.
And I think that's what we have to start thinking about.
There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak.
It is because our Navy is so small.
It is because our Air Force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few years ago.
It's because our Marines Corps is not ready to be deployed.
There are a lot of problems that are going on, and we need to solve those problems, we need to build up our military... Well, let me put it this way, there has -- there have been numerous studies, and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and autism.
This was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago, and it has not been adequately, you know, revealed to the public what's actually going on.
Vaccines are very important.
Certain ones.
The ones that would prevent death or crippling.
There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases.
But, you know, a lot of this is -- is -- is pushed by big government.
And I think that's one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of, big government.
You know, we have 4.1 million federal employees.
Six hundred and fifty federal agencies and department (sic).
That's why they have to take so much of our taxes.
TAPPER: Should he stop saying it?
Should he stop saying that vaccines cause autism?
Well, you know, I've just explained it to him.
He can read about it if he wants to.
I think he's an intelligent man and will make the correct decision after getting the real facts.
And a lot of pediatricians now recognize that, and, I think, are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done, and I think that's appropriate.
I'd put my mother on there.
You know, she was one of 24 children, got married at age 13, had only a third grade education, had to raise two sons by herself, refused to be a victim.
Wouldn't let us be victims, and has been an inspiration to many people.
Well, you know, I was a radical Democrat before I started listening to Ronald Reagan.
And he didn't sound like what they said Republicans were.
He sounded logical.
And I hope that I sound logical also.
Because when I look at what is going on with the United States of America, I see a lot of things that are not logical.
I see us allowing people to divide us, when in fact our strength is in our unity.
I see people exercising the most irresponsible fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do.
And hiding it from the American people, so that the majority of people have no idea what our financial situation is.
So, when someone comes along and says, free college, free phones, free this and that, and the other, they say, "wow, that's nice," having no idea that they're destabilizing our position.
And I think also that Ronald Reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads.
If we learn to lead in the Middle East right now, a coalition will form behind us, but never they do it if we just sit there and talk about it.
Real leadership is what I would hopefully bring to America.
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage.
He's number 11, he's got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway.
As far as temperament -- and we all know that -- as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament.
I built a phenomenal business with incredible, iconic assets, one of the really truly great real-estate businesses.
And I may be an entertainer, because I've had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with "The Apprentice" and everything else I've done.
But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that's the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.
And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm.
But we will be respected outside of this country.
We are not respected now.
I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there.
But I have to say...WALKER This is actually what's wrong -- this is what's wrong with this debate.
We're not talking about real issues.
And Mr. Trump, we don't need an apprentice in the White House.
We don't need an apprentice in the White House.
We have one right now.
He told us all the things we wanted to hear back in 2008.
We don't know who you are or where you're going.
We need someone who can actually get the job done.
Well, in Wisconsin...WALKER You -- you -- let me finish...
Excuse me.
WALKER You're using the talking...
I would do so much better than that.
WALKER Mr. Trump, you're using the talking points of the Democrats... No.
WALKER ... and as we all know...
I'm using facts.
WALKER ... that failed three times in four and a half years when I got elected, because it is working.
We balanced a budget.
You want to talk about balanced budgets?
You took four major projects into bankruptcy over and over and over again.
You can't take America into bankruptcy.
That's what's wrong with the politicians in Washington right now.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.
into bankruptcy.
That's what's wrong with politicians in Washington right now.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.
Every major business leader, has used the -- I never went bank bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows.
But -- hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I used the law four times and made a tremendous thing.
I'm in business.
I did a very good job.
But I will say this, and people are very, very impressed with what I've done, the business people.
But when the folks of Iowa found out the true facts of the job that you've done in Wisconsin, all of a sudden you, tubed (ph), he was No.
1 and now he's No.
6 or seven in the polls.
I promise I would have gotten it.
I promise if I wanted it, I would have gotten it.
No.
I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement.
I'm not only referring to him.
I -- a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here.
And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people.
I'm spending all of my money, I'm not spending -- I'm not getting any -- I turned down -- I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he's got.
I've turned it down.
I turned down last week $5 million from somebody.
So I will tell you I understand the game, I've been on the other side all of my life.
And they have a lot of control over our politicians.
And I don't say that favorably, and I'm not sure if there's another system, but I say this.
I am not accepting any money from anybody.
Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country.
I'm going to do the right thing.
I was a businessman, I got along with Clinton, I got along with everybody.
That was my job, to get along with people.
I didn't want to -- excuse me.
One second.
OK, more energy tonight.
I like that.
I didn't want -- it was my obligation as a businessman to my family, to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians.
I get along with all of them, and I did a damn good job in doing it.
Go ahead.
Don't make things up.
Jeb, don't make things up.
Come on.
So, number one, they have to respect you.
He has absolutely no respect for President Obama.
Zero.
Syria's a mess.
You look at what's going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we're fighting ISIS.
ISIS wants to fight Syria.
Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria?
Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.
I would talk to him.
I would get along with him.
I believe -- and I may be wrong, in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.
We don't get along with China.
We don't get along with the heads of Mexico.
We don't get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right.
They take advantage of us economically and every other way.
We get along with nobody.
I will get along -- I think -- with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable -- stable world.
I believe that I will get along -- we will do -- between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations.
TAPPER: Senator Rubio, you've taken a very different approach to the -- the question of Russia.
You've called Vladimir Putin a, quote, "gangster."
Why would President Rubio's approach be more effective than President Trump's?
I wouldn't have drawn the line, but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across.
They do bear some responsibility, but I think he probably didn't do it, not for that reason.
Somehow, he just doesn't have courage.
There is something missing from our president.
Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force, done something to Assad -- if he had gone in with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world.
They had a responsibility, absolutely.
I think we have three of them here...
I think they had a responsibility, yes.
Jeb, just...
I think it will haunt him.
I think it's a terrible.
I think it's going to haunt him absolutely.
He came back later and he said he misspoke.
There was no question because I heard when he said the statement.
I was watching and he said the statement.
And I said, wow, I can't believe it.
I will take care of women.
I respect women.
I will take care of women.
One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation.
We're talking about Iran.
The agreement was terrible.
It was incompetent.
I've never seen anything like it.
One of the worst contracts of any kind I've ever seen.
And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places.
But certainly North Korea.
And Ted and I have spoken.
We've -- a lot of us have spoken.
We're talking about Iran.
They are bad actors, bad things are going to happen.
But in the meantime, you have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I'm ready to use them.
And we don't even mention it.
So why didn't you say it?
Why didn't you say it?
I know, but why did you say it?
I heard it myself.
Why did you say it?
You said you're going to cut funding for women's health.
You said it.
I think she's got a beautiful face, and I think she's a beautiful woman.
Correct.
First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works.
So important, and it's a big part of it.
Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside, and I think Chris knows that, maybe as well as anybody.
They go, if I get elected, first day they're gone.
Gangs all over the place.
Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you look.
We have a country based on laws.
I will make sure that those laws are adhered to.
These are illegal immigrants.
I don't think you'd even be asking this question if I didn't run because when I ran, and I brought this up, my opening remarks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time.
And, then they found out with the killing of Katie, from San Francisco, and so many other crimes, they found out that I was right.
And, most people, many people, apologized to me.
I don't think you'd even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren't for me.
So, we have a country of laws, they're going to go out, and they'll come back if they deserve to come back.
If they've had a bad record, if they've been arrested, if they've been in jail, they're never coming back.
We're going to have a country again.
Right now, we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it, and it can be done with proper management, and it can be done with heart.
Well, I have to tell you, I hear phenomenal things.
I hear your wife is a lovely woman...
I don't know her, and this is a total mischaracterization... Good.
No, I won't do that, because I've said nothing wrong.
But I do hear she's a lovely woman.
Jeb said... ... that they come into our country as an act of love.
With all of the problems we that we have, in so many instances -- we have wonderful people coming in.
But with all of the problems -- this is not an act of love.
He's weak on immigration -- by the way, in favor of Common Core, which is also a disaster, but weak on immigration.
As I said, we are spending $200 billion -- we are spending $200 billion a year on maintaining what we have.
We will move them out.
The great ones will come back, the good ones will come back.
They'll be expedited, they'll be back, they'll come back legally.
We'll have a country -- they'll come back, legally.
Well, I think it's wonderful and all, but I did it a little bit half-heartedly, but I do mean it to a large extent.
We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English.
And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn't sound right to me.
We have to have assimilation -- to have a country, we have to have assimilation.
I'm not the first one to say this, Dana.
We've had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing.
This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
This is a reporter, not a high school kid.
Well, first of all, the -- the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars -- not television scholars, but legal scholars -- that it is wrong.
It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that.
A woman gets pregnant.
She's nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years.
I don't think so.
The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and -- it's probably going to be have to be check -- go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.
And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no -- we're the only -- one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years?
I don't think so.
I agree 100 percent, by the way, with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem, for the obvious reasons, but they do not.
But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can't be done.
I've seen both sides, but some of the greatest scholars agree with me, without having to go through Congress.
If you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem.
TAPPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
Senator Paul... That's true, sure.
-- let me -- well, let me just explain.
The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business.
The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster.
They still haven't recovered.
In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe.
When Carly says the revenues went up, that's because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.
Now one other company before that was Lucent.
Carly was at Lucent before that.
And Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also.
So I only say this.
She can't run any of my companies.
That I can tell you.
I'll tell you why; it's very simple.
I'll tell you.
I was running --
-- I've made over $10 billion.
I had a casino company -- Caesars just filed for bankruptcy.
Chris will tell you -- it's not Chris' fault either -- but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for -- maybe I'll blame Chris.
Wait a minute, Carly.
Wait.
I let you speak.
Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City.
I knew when to get out.
My timing was great.
And I got a lot of credit for it.
Many of the great business people that you know -- and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country.
But whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time --
-- they have used the laws of the land, which is the --
...Well, I'd like to respond, I'd like to respond... Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well.
What I don't like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50,000 a year, and has to hire H&R Block to do the -- because it's so complicated.
One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a socialistic thing.
What I'd like to do, and I'll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it's a major reduction in taxes.
It's a major reduction for the middle class.
The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now.
I know them all, but they'll pay more.
I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it's unfair.
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding.
And he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he has ever done.
Now unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice, but he did say that... And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word.
But I would say just... Well, I think it was.
And he actually said that.
Did you say that?
OK.
So I will say this, though, Hugh was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names.
I think he was reading them off a sheet.
And frankly I will have -- and I told him, I will have the finest team that anybody has put together and we will solve a lot of problems.
You know, right now they know a lot and look at what is happening.
The world is blowing up around us.
We will have great teams and great people.
I hope that answers your question.
I mean, you are in the Senate, but I hope that answers your question.
No, I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
I mean...
I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today.
Number one.
I am not sitting in the United States Senate.
I'm a businessman doing business transactions.
I am doing business transactions.
I will know more about this -- and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it's a great interview, you said it, I didn't.
Well, now I did.
But...
Listen, just one second.
Just one second.
I will know...
...I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what's going in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess.
TAPPER: Senator Rubio, he did invoke your absentee record in the Senate.
(inaudible) I'm -- and I'm meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it's about judgment.
In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it.
I'm a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military.
I'm the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq.
Just excuse me, one second, Rand...
If you don't mind, Rand -- you know, you are on last -- you do have your 1 percent.
I would like -- and I think it's very important.
I think it's important, because it's about judgment.
It's about judgment.
I didn't want to go into Iraq, and I fought it, because what I said -- what I said... ... was you're going to -- you're going to destabilize... ... the Middle East, and that's what happened.
If you think about it...
Your brother -- and your brother's administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster, those last three months, that Abraham Lincoln couldn't have been elected.
I don't know.
You feel safe right now?
I don't feel so safe.
Speaking for myself, I'm OK with it.
I think there's a certain truth to it.
I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever.
There are many people.
I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security.
I do not... As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people.
Don't forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it.
But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly.
And I would be willing to write mine off 100 percent, Dana.
BASH: So is a voluntary program the way to get the Social Security system solvent again like that.
Well, I -- I -- I'd like to respond.
Autism has become an epidemic.
Twenty-five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines.
But I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Because you take a baby in -- and I've seen it -- and I've seen it, and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time.
Same exact amount, but you take this little beautiful baby, and you pump -- I mean, it looks just like it's meant for a horse, not for a child, and we've had so many instances, people that work for me.
I only say it's not -- I'm in favor of vaccines, do them over a longer period of time, same amount.
I think -- and I think you're going to have -- I think you're going to see a big impact on autism.
And that's all I'm saying, Jake.
That's all I'm saying.
Well, because she's been sitting for three hours, I think my daughter, Ivanka, who's right here.
Other than that we'll go with Rosa Parks.
I like that.
If I become president, we will do something really special.
We will make this country greater than ever before.
We'll have more jobs.
We'll have more of everything.
We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on.
I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action.
But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.
If I'm president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten.
We'll find solutions.
And the world will respect us.
They will respect us like never before.
And it will be actually a friendlier world.
And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.
I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead.
I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won.
I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country.
I think the voters will make that determination.
And that requires a steadiness.
That requires an understanding of how the world works.
That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world.
You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result.
You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills.
WALKER Jake, this is -- this is -- this is... No.
Absolutely not.
People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years.
We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating.
People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C.
The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something -- that was generous and gave me money -- was Donald Trump.
He wanted casino gambling in Florida --
You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed to --
during and after.
And that's not -- I'm not going to be bought by anybody.
-- because you gave her money.
Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton --
-- it doesn't work for anybody on this -- on stage.
No.
The simple fact is, Donald, you could not take --
So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton --
When he -- and he -- when he asked -- when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no.
We said no.
And that's the simple fact.
The simple fact is --
No, I don't think so, but we need to be strong against China.
We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China.
There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed.
There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner.
That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that.
As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement.
A strategy would be how do we confront Iran?
And, the first thing that we need to do is to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this administration.
And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back.
If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of.
I don't think -- you're not stating my views right.
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith.
Religious conscience is -- is -- is a first freedom.
It's -- it's a powerful part of our -- of our Bill of Rights.
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in -- in -- in this country -- I'm a -- I was opposed to the decision, but we -- you can't just say, "well, they -- gays can't get married now."
But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in weddings, or bakers.
A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way.
This should be solved at the local level... And so we do agree, Mike.
Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage.
I got to act on my core beliefs.
It's part of who I am.
Life is a gift from God.
And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life.
And so I defunded Planned Parenthood.
We created a climate where parental notification took place.
We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys.
We were totally focused on this.
And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C.
So here is a solution to this.
Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the "Reagan Rule."
It was passed in 1988.
And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.
He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in.
When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X.
And this deal will be finished.
There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country.
I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government.
Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.
That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people.
And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.
Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor.
-- we increased child support -- we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent.
I have a proven record.
I have a proven record.
He did, he did.
You're proud of your family, just as I am.
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald.
She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here... And why don't you apologize to her right now.
So, here's the deal.
My wife is a Mexican-American.
She's an American by choice.
She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border.
But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique.
We're at a crossroads right now.
Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us?
Or the Donald Trump approach?
The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end.
I...
I'm on the Reagan side of this.
Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English.
Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values.
Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations.
That happened to be 41 and 43.
So just by definition, if you're -- and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they -- they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration.
Of course that's the case.
But I'm my own man.
I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world.
The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.
Rebuild our military so that our -- so that we don't deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that we're serious.
If we're going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible.
We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities.
We need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017, not in 1990 -- you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started.
The world is dramatically different.
And I believe that we need to restore America's presence and leadership in the world.
Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the -- the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president of the United States.
So I'll have a team that will be -- that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength.
We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of...
The leadership of Ronald Reagan and my...
So you -- the -- the first chance...
Right after me, and then I'll -- I'll yield -- yield the floor.
What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating?
Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran?
It wasn't a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton.
That's what you believe.
I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying.
So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton... ... is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran?
You know what?
As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure.
He kept us safe.
I don't know if you remember... ... Donald... ... you remember the -- the rumble?
You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it?
He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.
... because of what President Obama's done by pulling back.
Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time.
I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices.
We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution.
That is what we need.
We can't have -- the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you can't get attacked.
And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer off... John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do.
And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed.
You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore.
This is the culture in Washington.
You have to fight hard for these appointments.
This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do.
Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts.
He supported him, publicly.
So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice.
And, I think he is doing a good job.
But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which legislate.
Well, I -- I wanted to -- be -- make it easier for him.
So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it.
I'm sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people.
My mom's not happy that I just did.
That's true.
And here's the deal.
Here's the deal.
We have -- we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana.
What goes on in Colorado, as far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision.
But if you look at the problem of drugs in this -- in this society today, it's a serious problem.
Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin that's taking place.
People's families are -- are being torn apart.
It is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment, more prevention -- we're the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in -- in -- in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second chance.
That's the best way to do this.
No, you're wrong -- you're wrong about this.
Here's the deal.
No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue.
That's the way to solve this problem.
Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a (inaudible) place.
And as a citizen of Florida, I voted no.
I think we need to do this state by state.
There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws.
This is a complicated place.
But I do think the natural impulse on the left -- Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws.
President Obama almost reflexively always says the same thing.
And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of -- of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens.
That's not the right approach to do it.
In Florida, we have a background check.
We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them.
We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime.
That's the better approach.
But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.
I -- I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement.
That's -- that's exactly what we need to do.
I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher.
Probably illegal, but what the heck?
Since it's not going to happen.
A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
Ever Ready, it's very high energy, Donald.
For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created.
That is what the next president will have to deal with.
And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.
If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty.
The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit.
That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy.
And then we'll be able to lead the world.
Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.
Good evening, I'm Scott Walker, and tonight, I want to thank and Mrs. Reagan, and the Reagan Library for hosting us.
You see, in my lifetime, the greatest president was a governor from California.
Ronald Reagan knew how to go big, and go bold.
He understood the essence of moving this country forward, and that's what I did when I took on the status quo in my state, and the Washington based special interest.
Now, more than ever, America needs a leader who will go big and bold again.
Someone who's been tested.
I'm ready to be that leader.
Thank you.
But Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake...
But Jake, this -- this is -- this... Jake, yeah, absolutely, I'll take this on, because this is an issue that's important in this race.
Just because he says it doesn't make it true.
The facts are the facts.
If you want someone that can actually take on the special interest of Washington, which you yourself said you were part of, using the system, we need somebody that will stand up and fight for average Americans to put them back in charge of their government.
I'm the one who is taking that on.
I'll do that as your next president.
Two parts to that, one on China, one back for a second on Iran.
When it comes to China, why would we be giving an official state visit to a country that's been involved in a massive cyber attack against the United States?
That's not just a visit, that's a 21 gun salute on the South Lawn of the White House.
It just doesn't make any sense.
If we're ever going to send a message to them, wouldn't this be the time, when they've issued this, sort of, massive attack against us?
And, Jake, for the question, I was one of the first ones to call for terminating the bad deal with Iran on day one.
The President came after me and said I need to bone up.
You know, the President who called ISIS the JV squad said I needed to bone up.
The reality is it's a bad deal on day one, and it's a bad deal because this president has allowed Iran to go closer, and closer.
I'd love to play cards with this guy because Barack Obama folds on everything with Iran.
We need a leader who's going to stand up, and actually (INAUDIBLE)... Jake, just one more moment.
This is -- there's something bigger to this.
Now, I -- like so many other governors here, I defunded Planned Parenthood four-and-a-half years ago, in a Blue State.
But it's bigger than that.
We did that in a Blue State, we took the money and put it into women's health, so we did exactly what we're talking about here.
But I think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do this nationally, and this is precisely why so many Republicans are upset with Washington.
They see the House and they see the Senate and they say why can't we pass this.
Why can't we defund Planned -- put it in a spending bill.
Forget about the 60-vote rule, there's no reason -- and the Constitution doesn't call for 60 votes.
Pass it with 51 votes, put it on the desk of the president --
-- and go forward and actually make a point.
This is why --
So, the best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education, the skill they need, to take on careers that pay more than minimum wage.
And, it's why we talk about it, it's all about jobs.
You want to help actually get jobs, it's why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes.
To me, it's not just about taxes, cutting taxes.
I've done it as much as anyone has.
I've cut income taxes, I've cut property taxes.
In fact, property taxes are lower today in my state than they were before we took office.
The real issues about jobs.
Ronald Reagan, our plan is based on the Ronald Reagan tax cuts of 1986.
That brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in American history.
All the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs, helping people get the skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed.
That's the way you help people create jobs.
It's part of our large plan to reform the tax code, to cut taxes, to put in place an education system that gives people the skills and education that they need.
To put in place all the above energy policy, but you start on day one with repealing Obamacare.
I'm the only one on this stage that's actually got a plan, introduced an actual plan to repeal Obamacare on day one.
I'll send a bill up to Congress, and to make sure enact it...
...I'm going to sign an order that makes the Congress live by the same rules as everybody else.
TAPPER: ...Thank you, Governor... ...That will ensure they repeal Obamacare... ...Jake, Jake, Jake, I just want to address that issue because you said I didn't answer, and I did.
I said, to me, I think the real focus shouldn't be -- you know, Hillary Clinton talks about the minimum wage.
That's her answer to grow the economy.
The answer is to give people the skills and the education so they make far more than minimum wage.
I don't want to argue about how low things are going to be, I want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in America.
That's what Reagan talked about.
It wasn't how bad things were, it was how to make it better for everyone.
That's what we've done in Wisconsin, that's exactly what we'd do as...: That's because of Barack -- that's because of Barack Obama.
: That's because of Barack Obama.
We've had a president who called ISIS the J.V.
squad, Yemen a success story, Iran a place we can do business with.
It's not because of George W. Bush; it's because of Barack Obama... (inaudible) on that point, though, whether it's -- whether we're talking about national security, foreign policy or we're talking about domestic policy, the key... ... the key issue here is talking about leadership.
Now, there's a lot of greater people up here, and you've heard a lot of great ideas out there.
But I would ask the American people, look at who's been tested.
When there were 100,000 protesters in my capital, I didn't back down, when they issued death threats against me and threats against my family, I didn't back down, when they tried to recall me, I didn't back down, and when they made me the -- one of their number-one targets last year, I didn't back down.
Give me the chance to be your president.
I won't back down... ... on any of these issues.
To be clear, what I said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions that are already in play.
Barack Obama's administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already in Iraq.
We need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts, not the political forces in the White House, but our military experts about how many more we sent in.
And we certainly shouldn't have a commander-in-chief who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far we're going to go, and how far we're willing to fight, so I'm not putting a troop number.
What I'm saying is lift the political restrictions.
When you do that, you empower our military personnel already there to work with the Kurd and the Sunni allies, to reclaim the territory taken by ISIS.
And to do so in a way that allows that ISIS doesn't go back in Syria, as we were just talking about here.
That is the fundamental problem going forward.
We have a president -- and Hillary Clinton was a part of this, by the way, who has made political decisions for our men and women in uniform.
I want the men and women at home to know, if I'm commander-in-chief, I will only send you into harm's way when our national security is at risk.
And if we do, you know you'll have our full support, the support of the American people, and you'll have a clear path for victory.
... a lot of those people, though, and I'm going to echo what Senator Rubio just said.
This is an issue where, we're talking about my state, it's thousands of manufacturing jobs.
Thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the Obama administration, own EPA has said will have a marginal impact on climate change.
So we're going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state, I think it's something like 30,000 in Ohio, other states across this country, we're going to put people -- manufacturing jobs, the kind of jobs that are far greater than minimum wage, this administration is willing to put at risk for something its own EPA says is marginal (ph)... Harley.
I love riding Harley's.
Well, I turned 13 years old two days before Ronald Reagan was first elected.
A lot of people forget this, but just a few days before that election 1980, he was behind in the polls.
And I think what changed things was people in America realized they didn't want to hear what was bad about America, they wanted to know how it was going to be better.
Ronald Reagan wasn't just a conservative Republican, he was an eternal optimist in the American people.
And I am too.
So here's what I think will make America better.
We need to live in a world where our children are free, are free from the threats of radical Islamic terrorism.
We need to live in an America where we have an economy, where everyone can live their piece of the American dream, no matter what that dream is.
And we need to live in an America where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail, but ultimately small enough to succeed, where we send powers back to the states and back to the people.
That's what I did in Wisconsin.
We took on the big government union bosses, the big government special interests, many of whom came in from Washington, to spend millions of dollars to try and take me out because we stood up to them, we didn't back down in any of those instances.
If you give me the chance as your next president, I won't back down any day, anyway, anyhow.
I'll fight and win for you and your families every single day I'm in office.
Good evening.
My story, from secretary to CEO, is only possible in this nation, and proves that everyone of us has potential.
My husband, Frank, of 30 years, started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop.
We have come to a pivotal point in our nation's history where this nation's possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government grown so big, so powerful, so inept, so corrupt, and a political class that refuses to do anything about it.
I am prepared to lead the resurgence of this great nation.
You know, I think Mr. Trump is a wonderful entertainer.
He's been terrific at that business.
I also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability, judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure.
All of us will be revealed over time and under pressure.
I look forward to a long race.
That's not for me to answer; it is for the voters of this country to answer, and I have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the United States of America.
Jake, I'll tell you -- I'll tell you why people are supporting outsiders.
It's because you know what happens if someone's been in the system their whole life, they don't know how broken the system is.
A fish swims in water, it doesn't know it's water.
It's not that politicians are bad people, it's that they've been in that system forever.
The truth is 75 percent of the American people think the government is corrupt; 82 percent of the American people think these problems that have festered for 50 years in some cases, 25 years in other cases.
The border's been insecure for 25 years; 307,000 veterans have died waiting for health care.
These things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the status quo.
You know what a leader does?
They challenge the status quo, they solve problems that have festered for a long time and they produce results.
That is what my whole life has been about.
People know this is about far more than replacing a D with an R --
Having... Having met Vladimir Putin, if I may... Having met Vladimir Putin, I wouldn't talk to him at all.
We've talked way too much to him.
What I would do, immediately, is begin rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, I would begin rebuilding the missile defense program in Poland, I would conduct regular, aggressive military exercises in the Baltic states.
I'd probably send a few thousand more troops into Germany.
Vladimir Putin would get the message.
By the way, the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know General Suleimani's name is because Russia is in Syria right now, because the head of the Quds force traveled to Russia and talked Vladimir Putin into aligning themselves with Iran and Syria to prop up Bashar al- Assad.
Russia is a bad actor, but Vladimir Putin is someone we should not talk to, because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the other side, and we have all of that within our control.
We could rebuild the Sixth Fleet.
I will.
We haven't.
We could rebuild the missile defense program.
We haven't.
I will.
We could also, to Senator Rubio's point, give the Egyptians what they've asked for, which is intelligence.
We could give the Jordanians what they've asked for... ...bombs and materiel.
We have not supplied it...
...I will.
We could arm the Kurds.
They've been asking us for three years.
All of this is within our control.
...Jake... ...Jake, (INAUDIBLE)... And then it'll be my turn.
Dana, I'd like to... Dana, I would like to link these two issues, both of which are incredibly important, Iran and Planned Parenthood.
One has something to do with the defense of the security of this nation.
The other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation.
You have not heard a plan about Iran from any politician up here, here is my plan.
On day one in the Oval Office, I will make two phone calls, the first to my good friend to Bibi Netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state of Israel.
The second, to the supreme leader, to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime, anywhere inspections by our people, not his, we, the United States of America, will make it as difficult as possible and move money around the global financial system.
We can do that, we don't need anyone's cooperation to do it.
And every ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the United States in America is back in the leadership business, which is how we must stand with our allies.
This is about the character of our nation, and if we will not stand up in and force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us.
You know, it's interesting to me, Mr. Trump said that he heard Mr. Bush very clearly and what Mr. Bush said.
I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said.
Dana, with all being said to Mr. Trump... Immigration did not come up in 2016 because Mr. Trump brought it up.
We talked about it in 2012, we talked about it in 2008.
We talked about it in 2004.
We have been talking about it for 25 years.
This is why people are tired of politicians.
First let me say, We have just spent a good bit of time discussing, as Republicans, how to solve this problem.
I would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic question.
Why have Democrats not solved this problem?
President Obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration problem.
He entered Washington with majorities in the House and the Senate.
He could have chosen to do anything to solve this pro -- this problem.
Instead, he chose to do nothing.
Why?
because the Democrats don't want this issue solved.
And meanwhile, what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years.
With all due respect, Mr. Trump, we've been talking about illegal immigration for 25 years.
San Francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989.
There are 300 of them.
And meanwhile, what has happened?
Nothing.
The border remains insecure.
The legal immigration system remains broken.
Look, we know what it takes to secure a border.
We've heard a lot of great ideas here.
Money, manpower, technology... ...mostly, apparently, leadership... ...the kind of leadership that understands how to get results.
But you -- you would stipulate, Mr. Trump, but not everyone agrees with you.
I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time, the worst technology recession in 25 years.
The NASDAQ stock index fell 80 percent.
It took 15 years for the stock index to recover.
We had very strong competitors who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process.
We must lead in this nation again, and some tough calls are going to be required.
But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the day it happened.
When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies.
I made a few.
Steve Jobs told me that when he called me the day I was fired to say, hey, been there, done that twice.
It's also true that the man that led my firing, Tom Perkins, just took --
-- out a full-page ad in the New York Times to say he was wrong, I was right.
I was a terrific CEO, the board was dysfunctional.
And he thinks I will make a magnificent president of the United States.
You know, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard.
But honestly, Mr. Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this.
You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other people's money.
That is in fact precisely the way you ran your casinos.
You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses, using other people's money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once --
-- not twice, four times, a record four times.
Why should we trust you to manage the finances --
-- of this nation any differently than you managed the finances --
A track record of leadership is not a game.
It is the issue in this election.
Well, I thought we had been hearing quite a bit about Govenor Christie's record as governor, actually.
I think track records are very important.
I completely agree that what's at stake here is the future of this nation, and the future of every American.
But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership.
And let's talk about what leadership is.
It's not about braggadocio, it is about challenging the status quo, solving problems, producing results.
And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others.
Problems have festered in Washington for too long.
And the potential of this nation is being crushed.
You see, Governor Christie, people spend time talking about their track records, and Mr. Trump and I have every right to do the same.
And Mrs. Clinton has to defend her track record.
Her track record of lying about Benghazi, of lying about her e- mails, about lying about her servers.
She does not have a track record of accomplishment.
Like Mrs. Clinton, I, too, have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around the globe.
But unlike Mrs. Clinton, I know flying is an activity, not an accomplishment.
Mrs. Clinton -- if you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to name a accomplishment of Mrs. Clinton's.
We just spent -- we just spent the last 10 minutes... ...we need to reform the Department of Defense, we need as well... ...to invest in our military technology, and we need to care for our veterans so 307,000... ...aren't dying waiting for health care.
Jake, may I just say... Jake -- Jake...
I very much hope I am the only person on this stage who can say this, but I know there are millions of Americans out there who will say the same thing.
My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug addiction.
So, we must invest more in the treatment of drugs.
I agree with Senator Paul.
I agree with states' rights.
But we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just like having a beer.
It's not.
And the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that Jeb Bush smoked 40 years ago.
We do -- sorry, Barbara.
We do need -- we do need criminal justice reform.
We have the highest incarceration rates in the world.
Two-thirds of the people in our prisons are there for non-violent offenses, mostly drug related.
It's clearly not working.
But we need to tell young people the truth.
Drug addiction is an epidemic, and it is taking too many of our young people.
I know this sadly from personal experience.
I wouldn't change the $10 bill, or the $20 bill.
I think, honestly, it's a gesture.
I don't think it helps to change our history.
What I would think is that we ought to recognize that women are not a special interest group.
Women are the majority of this nation.
We are half the potential of this nation, and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses.
I think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by Lady Liberty and Lady Justice.
Lady Liberty stands tall and strong.
She is clear-eyed and resolute.
She doesn't shield her eyes from the realities of the world, but she faces outward into the world nevertheless, as we always must.
And she holds her torch high, because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a very troubled world.
And Lady Justice, Lady Justice holds a sword by her side, because she is a fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great.
She holds a scale in her other hand.
And with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of God.
And so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and the government, powerful and powerless alike.
And she wears a blindfold.
And with that blindfold she is saying to us that it must be true, it can be true that in this country, in this century, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter how you start, it doesn't matter your circumstances, here in this nation, every American's life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their God-given gifts.
One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Hello, I'm John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio.
Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls.
Thanks for watching tonight.
By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much -- are pretty much the same.
Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.
Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him.
The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.
Listen, you know, I -- if I were sitting at home and watch thing back and forth, I would be inclined to turn it off.
I mean, people at home want to know across this country, they want to know what we're going to do to fix this place, how we'll balance a budget, how we're going to create more economic growth, how we'll pay down the debt.
What we're going to do to strengthen the military.
So, we just spent 10 minutes here...
But -- but wait a minute.
It's a lot of ad hogshead.
Now, I know that it may be buzzing out there, but I think it's important we get to the issues, because that's what people want, and they don't want all this fighting.
...Yeah, well... Well, let me just say this.
First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it.
But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies.
If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies.
Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months.
I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years.
I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign -- in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.
Now, here's the -- if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on.
If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on.
And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table.
We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy.
No, no, no.
I want to -- I want to -- I want to say something about what the senator just said.
No one is -- no -- let me -- let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us.
President Bush did it in the Gulf War.
We work better when we are unified.
Secondly, nobody's trusting Iran.
They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.
If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway.
If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on.
And let me make it clear -- let me make it clear... ... if we think -- if we think they're getting close to a -- to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone.
That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood.
I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.
I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood.
But when (ph) it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.
When we shut the government down -- if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes.
The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up -- open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?"
So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood.
I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done.
Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done.
There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic.
But I would not be for shutting the government down... ...because I don't think it's going to work out.
...Dana, in a way that maximizes their value for sale for profit.
It is disgusting, and the American people need to hear it... ...we shouldn't be fighting with each other.
She's the real opponent, she's the real problem.
I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
Why will (ph) we put tax reform on the president's desk, so we can simplify this tax system?
No, no, it's really important, Dana.
We got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for.
Why don't we put tax reform on this president's desk, and make him veto it if that's what he wants to do?
Why haven't we repealed and replaced Obamacare?
Make him veto if that's what he wants to do.
I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.
But let's just stop for a second.
There's one person on this stage that does have a record.
I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.
We also cut taxes.
And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming.
I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.
We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor.
We've grown well over 300,000 jobs.
You see, I've done it in both places.
I'm the only one here that has done it in both places.
It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget.
It was legitimate.
It was real.
And we negotiated it.
A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what?
At the end of the day, America has got to work.
We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this -- with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody.
People have a chance to rise.
So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane.
It's not somebody that talks about it.
It's about the person who has done it.
And I've done it in... ... both places.
And I did it including people in the other party.
And that's how we were successful.
And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward.
Thank you.
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around.
Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.
All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat.
I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year.
And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent.
That hadn't happened for 96 years.
So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record.
But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it.
So... You know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them.
Can I just -- can I -- Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest.
You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal.
We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.
But, we face, also, a bigger war -- and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas.
You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS.
Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves... ...to make (ph) centers (ph) of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization...
...This is a giant battle in the world today... Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own.
An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.
Well, I have one now -- they (ph) call me, "Unit One".
My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One.
You're Unit Two."
FIORINA: Secretariat.
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems.
And how?
By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats.
I did it in Washington.
And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else.
Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world.
We have no choice but to do that.
We will be stronger when we are unified.
And we'll fight for freedom and for human rights.
And finally, a little bit of what Carly said.
The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down.
America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.
One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world.
We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds.
And there is one line on there that stands out all the time.
"If you've saved one life, you've changed the world."
We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country.
Thank you.
Hi, my name is Chris Christie, and I'd like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because I'd like to ask all of you, how many of you, raise your hand, believe that in today's Barak Obama America your children will have a better life than you've had?
You see?
That's why I'm running for President.
because leadership is not about me, it's about our country.
And, what we talk about tonight, it's not about us, it's about the people in the audience tonight, because in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust, and their faith, and their belief that the next generation will have a better life.
He's stolen that from us, and when I'm president, I'm going to take it back.
Well, I know Ben wasn't talking about me, I'm sure he was talking about one of the other guys, not me.
As far as being an outsider is concerned -- as far as being an outsider is concerned, let me tell you this, Jake, I'm a Republican in New Jersey.
I wake up every morning as an outsider.
I wake up every morning with a Democratic legislature who trying to beat my head in and fight me because I'm trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately.
And so, everyone can talk us here about their credentials.
But the bottom line is, every morning I get up, I veto 400 bills from a crazy liberal Democratic legislature, not one of them has been overridden.
I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history, according to Americans for Tax Reform.
What folks want in this country is somebody to go down there and get the job done.
And that's exactly what I'll do.
So, I know this much, that what the American people want to hire right now is somebody who believes in them.
And believes that they are the ones who can fix our country.
I will be the vessel through which they can fix this country, but it's not about me.
It's about all of you.
And getting this government off your back and out of your way, and letting you succeed.
I know Ben wasn't talking about me.
She is, and so if she, based on conscience, can't sign that -- that marriage license, then there should be someone in her office to be able to do it, and if the law needs to be changed in the state of Kentucky, which is what she's advocating, it should be changed.
And why don't we do the same thing with Planned Parenthood?
We elected a Republican Congress to do this.
And they should be doing it, and they're not.
And they're giving the president a pass.
I put it in the list, Dana.
We should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action.
Let's force him to do what he says he's going to do.
Now I don't know whether he'll do it or not, but let's force him to do it.
First of, Jake, I don't yield to anybody on how to enforce the law.
I'm the only person on this stage who spent seven years as a United States Attorney after September 11th, and I know how to do this.
The fact is though that for 15,000 people a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the current levels of funding, and the current number of law enforcement officers.
Here's what we need to do, and I think this is where Donald is absolutely right.
What we need to do is to secure our border, and we need to do it with more than just a wall.
We need to use electronics, we need to use drones, we need to use FBI, DEA, and ATF, and yes, we need to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa, and when they overstay their visa, we need to tap them on the shoulder, and say, "You have overstayed your welcome, you're taking advantage of the American people.
It's time for you to go."
If we had that kind of system in place, we wouldn't have the 11 million people we have now.
Jake listen.
While I'm as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly's career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn't have a job, who can't fund his child's education, I've got to tell you the truth.
They could care less about your careers, they care about theirs.
Let's start talking about that on this stage and stop playing -- and stop playing the games.
Stop playing --
John -- I'm not done yet, John.
Stop -- and stop playing -- and Carly -- Carly, listen.
You can interrupt everybody else on this stage, you're not going to interrupt me, OK?
The fact is that we don't want to hear about your careers, back and forth and volleying back and forth about who did well and who did poorly.
You're both successful people.
Congratulations.
You know who's not successful?
The middle class in this country who's getting plowed over by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
Let's start talking about those issues tonight and stop this childish back-and-forth between the two of you.
Listen, you know, Hugh, it's an important point.
And the question is, who is going to prosecute Hillary Clinton?
The Obama White House seems to have in interest, the Justice Department seems to have no interest.
I think it's time to put a former federal prosecutor on the same stage as Hillary Clinton.
And I will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record we're talking about here.
The fact she had a private email server in her basement, using national security secrets running through it, could have been hacked by the Russians, the Chinese, or two 18-year-olds on a toot (ph) wanting to have some fun.
No one is answering that question from the Hillary Clinton campaign... You know why?
Because she knows she's wrong, and she cannot look in the mirror at herself, and she cannot tell the American people the truth.
Well, Jake, I was named U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001.
And that next day my wife Mary Pat did what she did every day, she traveled through the World Trade Center and went to her office two blocks from the World Trade Center.
And after those planes hit, for five-and-a-half-hours after that, I couldn't reach her, didn't know whether she was dead or alive, and we had three children at the time, 8, 5 and 1.
And I had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had to confront, the idea I might become a single parent, the idea that my life and my children's life might be changed forever.
We lost friends that day.
We went to the funerals.
And I will tell you that what those people wanted and what they deserved was for America to answer back against what had been done to them.
And I support what President Bush did at that time, going into Afghanistan, hunting al Qaeda and its leaders, getting its sanctuary out of place, and making it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money.
And then he went to prosecutors like us, and he said, never again.
Don't prosecute these people after the crime is committed.
Intervene before the crime happens.
I absolutely believe that what the president did at the time was right.
And I am proud to have been one of the people on the stage who was part of making sure that what Governor Bush said before was the truth.
America was safe for those seven years and Barack Obama has taken that safety away from us.
Let me say this, Jake, is that while that may have been a fine idea that Dr. Carson had, these people were out to kill us.
I stood in that region with my family, and every time a plane went overhead in the weeks after that, people's heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again.
You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point.
That could be handled later on.
What you need is a strong American leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation.
That's what I would do as commander-in-chief in this circumstance.
And that's what President George W. Bush did in 2001.
You know, I enjoy the interplay.
Thank you, gentlemen.
I'll just say this, first off, New Jersey is the first state in the nation that now says if you are non-violent, non-dealing drug user, that you don't go to jail for your first offense.
You go to mandatory treatment.
You see, Jake, I'm pro-life.
And I think you need to be pro-life for more than just the time in the womb.
It gets tougher when they get out of the womb.
And when they're the 16-year-old drug addict in the Florida county lockup, that life is just as precious as the life in the womb.
And so, that's why I'm for rehabilitation, why I think the war on drugs has been a failure.
But I'll end with this.
That doesn't mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs.
And if Senator Paul thinks that the only victim is the person, look at the decrease in productivity, look at the way people get used and move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug, it is not them that are the only victims.
Their families are the victims too, their children are the victims too, and their employers are the victims also.
That's why I'll enforce the federal law, while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation, which we've done in New Jersey.
And Senator Paul knows that that's simply not the truth.
In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws, which I supported and implemented.
This is not medical marijuana.
There's goes as much -- a further step beyond.
This is recreational use of marijuana.
If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass the law to change it, and get a president to sign it.
No, it's not.
But with Donald, it's a good start.
That's really good.
No, listen.
This is an issue that -- that we've gotta talk about, and we haven't talked about yet.
71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service.
When John Kennedy was elected president in 1960, it was 26 percent.
Harvard and Dartmouth says that Social Security's going to go insolvent in seven to eight years.
So what I say is very simple.
We need to save this program for the good people out there who have paid into the system and need it.
And if that means making sure that folks like Donald and many of us on the stage don't get it, that's the right thing to do because here's what Hillary Clinton is going to want to do.
She's going to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us.
This government doesn't need more money to make Social Security solvent.
We need to be not paying out benefits to people who don't really need it.
We need to protect the people who Social Security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and food.
That's why I put out the proposal and that's the people I'm trying to...
I don't think Senator Rubio is a skeptic of climate change.
I think what Senator Rubio said I agree with.
That in fact we don't need this massive government intervention to deal with the problem.
Look at what we have done in New Jersey.
We have already reached our clean air goals for 2020.
And when I was governor, I pulled out of the regional cap and trade deal, the only state in the Northeast that did that.
And we still reached our goals.
Why?
Because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear.
We use natural gas.
We use solar power.
We're the third-highest- using solar power state.
You know why?
Because we made all of those things economically feasible.
I agree with Marco.
We shouldn't be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild left-wing idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate.
We can contribute to that and be economically sound.
We have proven we can do that in New Jersey.
Nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country if we want to go after this problem.
I understand.
No, no, listen, everybody makes a mistake every once in a while, Jake, even George Shultz.
And if that's truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing, then with all due respect to the former secretary of state, I disagree with him.
I think the Adams family has been shorted in the currency business.
Our country wouldn't be here without John Adams, and he would not have been able to do it without Abigal Adams, so, I'd put Abigail Adams on the bill.
You know, I've been called a lot of names by a lot of different people, and now I got to get called by names by the Secret Service?
I turned 18 in 1980, and my first vote was for Ronald Reagan.
Boy, am I glad I did it.
And I think the country is, too.
A Christie presidency won't be about me.
It will be about you.
Tonight, you sit at home in your living room, frustrated that you play by the rules, you pay the taxes, you do the hard things to raise your family, yet you feel like America's generosity is being taken advantage of.
That you've been -- system is being gamed, and that you're turning out to fall further and further behind.
Our presidency -- our presidency -- will be about ending that, about enforcing the law, level the playing field for everybody, and once again reward those folks who play by the rules, and think that justice means more than just the word.
But it means a way of life.
And I will tell you this, around the world, I will not shake hands with, I will not meet with, and I will not agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to Israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements with them.
It will be an America that be strong and resolute, and will once again be able to stick out its chest and say, "we truly are the greatest nation in the world, because we live our lives that way, each and every day."
John, I think the reason voters are so frustrated is nothing seems to change in DC.
Look, over the next the several hours, youre going to hear several Republicans, all tell you they want to shrink the size of government and grow the American economy.
And it sounds great.
Weve got to do it.
Heres the truth, of all these folks talking, Im the only one that has cut the size of government.
Theres not two of us; theres one of us.
The rest of it is all just hot air.
When politicians talk, we need to pay attention to what they do, not what they say.
Im the only one thats reduced the size of government.
Lets shrink the government economy, lets grow the American economy.
I think thats a false choice.
I think this was a very bad deal.
Whenever they tell us in D.C. theyre going to cut tomorrow, that means theyre never going to cut.
Tomorrow never seems to happen.
Instead, why wont we actually follow our conservative principles.
Why not insist on structural reforms.
Why not cut spending.
I dont mean shrink the growth rate.
I mean actually spend less.
Why not a balanced budget in the amendment to the Constitution, why not a super majority vote before  our taxes before they grow the government faster than the economy.
I think thats a false choice.
If I were leading, we would pass a conservative budget, challenge the President to do the right thing.
Heres the problem, the Republicans never want to fight.
Give Pelosi and Reid credit.
They forced Obamacare and socialism down our throats.
Why wont the Republicans fight half as hard for freedom and opportunity?
This was a bad budget.
Look, the left always complains theres not enough money for government.
We have 30,000 fewer state employees since the day I took office.
Eight credit upgrades.
Were a top ten state for private sector job creation.
Weve got a choice.
You grow the government economy or the American economy.
When I became governor, we had 25 years without ()migration.
We were coming back from Katrina.
The question many were asking, Will Louisiana rebuild?
Should Louisiana rebuild?
Seven years in a row, more people moving into the state than leaving the state.
We now have more people working than ever before, earning a higher income than ever before.
Yes, we have reduced the size of government.
Thats exactly what we need to do in DC.
In DC, the Republicans slow the growth rate.
They claim victory.
Thats not enough.
Lets be honest with where we are today.
We are running off a cliff.
Well be the next Greece.
We can rearrange the chair, over $18 trillion of debt.
No wonder our economy has been stagnant.
We havent had real growth.
If youre a young student here, you have not seen a robust economy.
Well, John, a couple things.
Not only do we not raise taxes, we did the largest income tax cut in the states history.
And Im proud of that record.
I think thats the kind of leadership voters want in DC.
Look, if you want a Republican thats going to grow government spending, if you want a candidate who is going to increase taxes, Im not your guy.
If you want somebody thats going to do and say the things that cant be said, cant be done, Im asking you to vote for me, to join my cause.
Thats how dangerous these times are.
These are dangerous times for America.
I think we have a chance to rescue the idea of America, but if we dont do it now, four years will be too late from now.
So, yes, Im proud we cut taxes, we cut spending, 30,000 fewer state government bureaucrats from the day I took office.
I absolutely will do that in DC.
Absolutely, John, I would go further.
My tax plan, like everybodys, is like a lot of Republicans.
Look, Id get rid of the death penalty and the marriage penalty and Id simplify the brackets to 25 percent, 10 percent, 2 percent so that an average middle-class family  a teacher married to law enforcement
Im going to get to that  pays 25 percent today would pay 10 percent under my plan.
But my plan does three things different from other peoples plans.
Remember, I said 2 percent.
I think everybody should pay something.
Even if its only 2 percent.
Thats the most important  2 percent  of my plan.
I know a lot of Republicans brag  you all can clap.
It doesnt scare me.
Go ahead.
I heard some people.
There are millions of folks that wouldnt pay taxes in Jebs plan and Trumps plan.
I think thats a mistake.
In terms of the corporate tax.
Secondly, I would get rid of the corporate tax.
We do have the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world.
I would get rid of it.
I would get rid of all the corporate welfare.
Make the CEOs pay their same tax rates the way the rest of us do.
And, third, I would purposely shrink the size of government.
You know, that is an intentional feature of my plan.
Weve got a choice.
Do we grow the government economy or the American economy?
So I say get rid of the corporate tax.
Bring those jobs and investments here to the United States, stop sending jobs and investment overseas.
Look, I think the government should work to change that.
That does not mean Im for the government mandating that.
We already have too many government mandates out of DC.
Do I want people to have paid leave?
Sure.
More people to earn higher wages?
Sure.
Do I want them to have better benefits?
Sure.
The government cant wave a magic wand and make that happen.
Heres the problem.
Over the past seven years, President Obama has tried to teach the American people the government is the answer to all of our problems.
Where has that gotten us?
We are on the path towards socialism.
The way that folks can get better-paying jobs with better benefits is we have a growing economy.
That means repeal all of Obamacare, a lower, flatter tax code.
That means we have an energy plan that makes sense.
That means we embrace an all of the above approach to energy.
Those are good-paying jobs.
The 50-, 70-, $90,000 paying jobs with benefits.
But this President wont let us produce more energy on our domestic federal lands and waters.
He wont allow the Canadians to build a Keystone pipeline.
Hes got an EPA thats doing everything they can to kill private sector jobs in America.
So, yes, I want families to have better-paying jobs and better benefits, but were not going to get that with a government mandate.
Were going to get that with a growing economy.
Well, a couple things.
Youre talking about payroll taxes that fund programs.
People pay for the medical care; they pay for their Social Security.
I want every American to worry and care about how those folks in DC are spending our money.
We have $18 trillion in debt.
They are misspending our money.
Earned success is so much more fulfilling than unearned success.
I dont want us to continue to create one class of Americans that pays income taxes, that pays for government, another class of Americans thats growing more and more dependent on government.
Thats what we have today.
Socialism is bad, not only for taxpayers, but for people that they say theyre trying to help.
There is dignity in work.
There is dignity in self-sufficiency.
I want to quote to you a president.
A previous president said this.
He said, The problem is, is that tax rates are too high.
Government income/revenues are too low.
He said, paradoxically, lowering tax rates now is the best way to produce higher government revenues later.
No, that wasnt President Reagan, as many are probably guessing at home.
That was President Kennedy.
I see you know the answer.
That was President Kennedy.
Imagine if he were alive today and if he was at that last Democratic debate.
Imagine if you try to say that in a party thats gearing towards socialism, that wouldnt be welcome in todays Democratic Party.
Well, thank you.
Look, if Senator Santorum wants to concede the tax cut wing of the Republican Party, Im happy to fight for that side of the Republican party.
Hes exactly right.
I explicitly want to shrink the size of government.
22 percent over ten years is not too much.
Weve cut our state budget 26 percent in 8 years.
This is a fundamental choice.
We mustnt become a cheaper version of the Democratic Party, a second liberal party.
We need to proudly say were willing to cut taxes, shrink government, grow the American economy.
President Kennedy said it to the Democratic Party, why cant we say it in the Republican Party in 2015.
Lets cut taxes.
John, our budget is balanced.
We balanced our budget every year for 8 years.
Yeah, we had to cut spending.
You know what?
We privatized or closed 9 of our 10 charity hospitals.
We did statewide school choice.
Youre quoting an old number from the beginning of the year.
We closed that gap.
What they talk about, just like DC, government is the only place where if you give them less money than they wanted, they count it as a cut.
They take last years budget, they add inflation, they call it a baseline.
We need to do zero-based budgeting.
We need to say just because you got money last year, you dont have it this year  let me close, though.
We balanced our budget.
We didnt raise taxes.
In 8 years weve never raised taxes.
We cut taxes.
Our taxpayers, our families are the better off for it.
Well, two things.
Absolutely they should be accountable.
They should be accountable for their students through the market.
Look, you either trust the American people to make their own choices or you dont.
I know the Left thinks we need to be protected from ourselves.
President Obama is trying to limit competition in the higher-education market.
As a result, you are going to see tuition prices continue to go up.
Weve got a trillion dollars of student debt, and counting, and he wants to exempt certain schools from the same oversight he wants to apply only to the for-profit market.
For some reason, the private sector is a bad word to this President.
Its not in the real world.
In Louisiana, we fought so that the dollars follow the child, instead of the child following the dollar.
What that means from K through 12, what that means is that parents and their families can decide what is the best way for their children to be educated.
Higher education, we have a TOPS program, where again, we will help if a student maintains a 20 ACT, 2.5 GPA, well pay for their tuition.
They can take those dollars to a private school of their choice in the state as well.
You either trust the American people or you dont.
Thats why you get Obamacare, and they want to tell us what kind of insurance to buy.
Thats why you get Common Core.
They want to take away our gun rights under the Second Amendment.
They want to take away our religious liberty rights.
So, yes, there is accountability to the students through choice and competition.
We dont need the nanny state to protect us from ourselves.
I was just saying to my colleague, I may be the last person in this audience without an iPhone.
Im actually one of the last ones, I still have a BlackBerry in my pocket, and I basically use it for scheduling.
I use it to keep up with  my wifes here, my three kids at home.
The only games on that phone are Brick Layer.
I use it to keep up with the news on the internet.
I may be the last American out there without a smartphone.
My apologies.
Absolutely.
When the Saints go back to repeat  we were talking about beer sales earlier.
All those folks who are being hung over in Louisiana from drinking and celebrating Drew Brees winning it, I think it would be a great day to take off.
No, look.
On a serious note, I do want to say this about the Super Bowl and our athletes.
They can be great role models for our children, and Im, obviously, a Saints fan.
Drew Brees and his wife, great role models, great Christians.
So, yes, it should be a holiday.
Our message is to conservatives.
This is our hour.
Thanks to the insanity, the incompetence of the Democratic Party, the American people are ready to turn our government over to us.
Its not enough to elect just any Republican, however.
The reality is, the idea of America is slipping away.
As Christians, we believe that the tomb is empty.
As Americans, we believe that our best days are always ahead of us, and they can be again.
We must win this election.
We cannot allow Hillary Clinton to take us down this path towards socialism, further down this path.
Ive got the courage to apply our conservative principles.
I cant do it alone.
With your help, with Gods grace, we can save the idea of America before its too late.
Yeah, I think its one thing to shrink the size of a state government, but its another thing to actually get something accomplished in Washington.
Its a much tougher field, and Im the one on this stage, and frankly on both stages, that has actually gone to Washington, said we would shrink government, said we would shake things up, and actually delivered for the conservative cause.
Everything from welfare reform, which was the largest, most significant accomplishment in the last 25 years for conservatism.
I authored the bill when I was in the House of Representatives, I managed the bill on the floor of the United States Senate.
You need a conservative who can deliver, and thats what I bring to the table.
Well, if you look at my flat tax, it actually takes the best of what Steve Forbes, Art () and many have been advocating a long time, which is a very strong pro tax code.
Very simple.
And it adjusts it to make sure that it is not regressive.
We have a $2,750 per person tax credit.
Thats $2,750 off the taxes due, not a deduction of credit.
If you run the numbers, no American who  is going to be paying more taxes under our proposal.
So we have accomplished both.
We have a system that has a low single rate, but we take care of American families.
Im talking about $2,750 per person.
That means a family of four, thats an $11,000 tax credit.
Thats very, very strong pro-family.
If you looked at the Wall Street Journal today and so many of the publications that have been out there, theyve talked about how the biggest problem () the middle of this country for workers to be able to rise and actually the breakdown of the American family.
William Galston, a liberal, said that on the page of the Wall Street Journal today.
That the key to poverty is families.
We put forth a pro-growth Steve Forbes plan, combined it with a pro-family plan, and thats why I think its going to work and work effectively.
Well, we shouldnt be putting tariffs on anything.
That hurts working men and women in this country.
What we should be doing is making our manufacturing more competitive.
One of the reasons I introduced the 20/20 plan, 20 percent flat tax on corporations as well as on individuals, is so we could be competitive, so we can bring those manufacturing jobs back.
You want to talk about cutting pollution.
You do a little back of the envelope.
We produce, per dollar GDP, about one-fifth of the CO2 and other pollutants that China produces.
So were five times more efficient at producing goods here as far as the environment is concerned.
Why?
Because of bad tax policy, bad regulatory policy and, yes, bad trade policy.
We need to have a President thats going to pledge, as I have.
Im going to make America the number one manufacturer so working men and women can have good-paying jobs again in America.
We have an immigration policy that Senator Graham supported that brings in even more low-wage workers into this country.
He says he wants to solve problems.
Thats great, but youre not solving problems for American wage earners.
Youre not solving problems for workers in America, who have seen their wages flatline and have been disaffected enough to leave the workplace.
We need to get better training, better skills, including vocational education and training in community colleges.
But the bottom line is, we have to make sure that we are not flooding this country with
Let me try to get a word in edgewise.
A true conservative loves to create a level playing field.
Thats what government is supposed to do.
Theyre not supposed to favor one group over another.
And when it comes to our manufacturers, the level playing field is not in the United States, its international.
And so the federal government should have laws, tax laws, regulatory laws and, yes, finance laws.
Theres 60 other ex-im banks all over the world.
Every major competitor for the United States manufacturing dollar has one of those banks.
And guess what?
They use those banks a heck of a lot more than the United States of America does, number one.
So in order to have a level playing field, which is what conservatives talk about all the time, a level playing field, then we have to have export financing.
And heres why:  Because export financing doesnt help Boeing or GE.
GE just lost a contract.
You know what they did?
They went to France.
They got the ex-im bank in France to support it.
And what did they do?
They moved manufacturing out of South Carolina, out of Texas, moved it to Hungary and to France.
GE is still making money, GE is still doing well, but American workers are out of jobs.
Thats why we have to have this level playing field so we can compete with the rest of the world.
Well, first, since you mentioned Colorado, I just want to thank the people of Colorado, because four years ago you gave me the honor of winning the nomination out here in the state of Colorado and on a night we won three states, and it catapulted us to win 11 states, ultimately.
And so I just want to thank you very, very much for that support.
And in response to that, I do drink a lot of Coors beer, so thought I would help.
The answer is pretty simple.
The answer is simple.
There are no shortage of breweries around the United States of America.
I do  as I travel around the country, I do pints and politics, and I go to breweries all over the place.
And there is almost no town in America that doesnt have a brewery.
So I dont think we need to worry too much.
Obviously, if theres some anti-competitive issues, we have agencies to look at that.
But, no, Im not concerned that Americans are not going to have choices in beer.
I would just say this, that what youre seeing is in healthcare, youre seeing a lot of consolidation and that consolidation is occurring because of Obamacare.
You are seeing it particularly in an area that I am concerned about.
And thats in health insurance.
Youre seeing the big health insurance companies fold up.
You have seen Obama try to feed health insurance companies, and they have all failed, I think, except one.
Why?
Because we have a system of Obamacare, with minimum loss ratios, that make it virtually impossible for a small insurer to operate effectively.
And this was the motive behind Obamacare.
This wasnt incidental.
This was deliberate to make it so impossible for smaller insurers to survive.
If they consolidate into a small group, then the left can say, Oh, there is no competition, we need the single payer.
Thats why we have to reform Obamacare.
Well, if you look at a plan that I introduced, the 20/20 clear vision for America, we increased growth by 10 percent, 1 percent a year.
So we go from 2.3 to 3.3.
In repealing Obamacare, its another .7.
So youre looking at 4 percent growth, according to the Tax Foundation.
And unlike Donald Trump and Bobby Jindal, we dont add $10 trillion to the deficit.
In fact, our plan, while it creates as many jobs as their plan does, and grows the economy as much as theirs does, we are a revenue-neutral plan because I believe that we need to reduce the size of government, yes, but we also need to reduce our deficit, and we need to get our budget balanced so we can start paying down this debt.
And adding a trillion dollars worth of tax cut and getting no more growth is not the way to do it.
But thats only half of it.
The word economy comes from the Greek word oikos, which means family.
The family is the first economy.
The one thing that we do not talk about enough is how stable families are vitally important for the middle of America to be prosperous and grow and be safe.
And I will have policies  not just tax policies  that will make sure that families are strong again in America.
MLB, NHL.
So Im a big sports fan.
And the Wall Street Journal.
Those are the three apps I use the most.
Well, since were usually in the Super Bowl, the Pittsburgh Steelers  Steeler Nation, anybody?
No.
I was in Kansas City over the weekend to watch the Steeler game, and about a third of the crowd were Steeler fans, so Im usually not alone when I call out Steeler Nation.
But we are used to being in the Super Bowl, so actually, it is in Pennsylvania already.
I grew up in a steel town in western Pennsylvania, outside of Pittsburgh, and when I announced for President, I announced from a factory floor.
When I talk about making America the number one manufacturer again in the world, its not just talk.
When I talk about having the opportunity for people to rise again, its not just because it polls well.
I represented the old steel valley of Pittsburgh.
I represented a 70 percent Democratic district and won with 60 percent of the vote.
Why?
Because I aligned myself with working men and women who feel that neither party and certainly not Washington, D.C., cares about them.
You are like me.
We will get American workers on the side of the Republican party, and we cannot be stopped if we do.
We need an outsider to run our party and to win the next election.
Washington has become a corrupt insider game.
Everybody talks about how theyre going to change the taxes, grow the economy, nothing seems to change.
By the way, Bobby, I shrunk the size of New York States government.
When I left, we had reduced the employment by over 25,000 and cut taxes.
But I understand to change Washington, you have to understand government as well.
You cant just be an outsider, you cant just be someone who throws stones at Washington.
You have to be someone who can actually bring people together across party lines.
I can do that.
I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party.
Becky, can I comment on this question?
I have two sons.
They both served overseas, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan.
I understand we have got to do far more to help our military, help our veterans and help protect our security.
This is a bad deal.
But to protect our military, I would have signed it.
Its not going to be the case.
If I have a chance to lead this country, were going to reduce the deficit, shrink the government, lower the tax burden and govern the private sector because thats how you solve deficits.
No, I dont think we need a military response, but we need a coordinated response.
And I have to say that I think that the Obama Administration has been completely lax, to say the least, in dealing with these cyber attacks, not just by governments like North Korea, but by particularly Chinese and other countries.
And what I would do is put in place a policy where if we know a company, say a Chinese company, is hacking into American companies, stealing trade secrets, as we know they do every day, we will retaliate against that company and say that that company is not going to be allowed to continue to do trade with the United States.
I would also look at what were doing at the federal level and put in place what Israel has done, a one federal agency dealing with cyber security and charged with working across the aisles to make sure we have the best technology.
I think they have gone too far.
I think weve seen Wall Street really blossom and do very well when the rest of the country is struggling.
And its because we have this corrupt connection between Wall Street and Washington.
And, John, you were just talking about what loopholes would you get rid of.
I would get rid of virtually every single one of them.
They cost American taxpayers $1.4 trillion a year.
I would throw them all out.
No, I would keep  first, yes, but what I would do, I would lower the tax on manufacturing to the lowest in the developed world, 12 percent.
We all have plans.
I have a plan.
We all have plans.
My plan, the Tax Foundation said, would create 5 and a half million new jobs over the next decade.
The difference, though, is I will get my plan enacted.
Because when I was Governor of New York, I passed sweeping tax code  cuts in a democratic state with a democratic legislature.
Bobby, youre talking about your tax cuts.
I cut taxes more than everybody on this stage.
More than everybody on the next stage combined by more than the other 49 states, in New York State.
I dont just have a plan.
I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes, and make the system fairer for all Americans.
Very simply, you guys talk over each other in Washington all the time.
Im not used to that.
We listen when people talk.
We have a skills gap.
You mentioned the construction company.
The construction industry says one of their biggest problems, they cant find the craftsmen to do the work.
What we have to do in America, is honor blue-collar work again.
We have to honor the carpenter, the plumber, the electrician who can actually build something.
And instead of just saying that a college degree delivers prestige, lets celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills, using training in high school and community colleges
so that we can have a better-quality workforce
But let me go back a little bit here.
We need to grow our economy faster.
Weve had the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression.
And its because of policy in Washington and policy at the Fed.
Let me go back to Washington.
In 2009
John, no question Barack Obama inherited an economic disaster in 2009.
But what did he do?
Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies and the economy, he ran through Obamacare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt companies, raised taxes, and almost completely eliminated one industry because of its taxes.
The Fed had to act.
And the Fed did act appropriately in reducing interest rates.
But theyve reduced them now for seven straight years.
Thats never happened before.
Theyve been zero for way too long.
They should raise the rates.
The Fed should get out of manipulating the market.
And the Fed also, by the way, should reduce its balance sheet, 2.7 trillion, let some of those bonds mature and put the money back in the banking system so our economy can grow.
Yeah, absolutely.
One of the things that troubles me about the Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts.
I mean, its ridiculous in the 21st century we are questioning whether or not () things are the appropriate way to go.
Of course they are.
And its also not appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere, doesnt make the earth warmer, all things being equal.
It does.
Its uncontroverted.
I think part of the problem is the () way Republicans think about climate change.
Say, Oh, my God.
We are going to have higher taxes, more Obama, more big government, the EPA shutting down factories.
Thats not the solution I see.
Governments role is to incentivize innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America.
We can have far more clean energy.
We can have next generation nuclear reactors that have no risk of meltdown.
We can have solar panels on every home that are four times more efficient than today.
R&D credits that the private sectors do this, develop this innovation.
Not only would we solve our problems, we would have clean energy, cheaper energy here.
We could export those technologies to places like China, like India.
So we would grow our economy, have a far greater impact globally, have a secured domestic source of energy and cleaner, healthier air.
Thats the solution.
Embrace science, embrace innovation and change.
The one I use the most is Uber.
You know, I used to get driven.
When I was governor, I had a driver.
I dont anymore.
Its an example of what Millennials are doing to change America for the better.
And I tweet a lot, too.
So Uber, Twitter, and then I communicate with my family.
Im a long-suffering Jets fan, so my answer is no, theres no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl.
Let me just add this.
The Mets are going to win tonight.
Thank you for the opportunity to be with this great audience tonight.
Im a limited government conservative.
And I mean by that that not just when it comes to economic issues, leaving them to the state, but social issues as well.
And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican nomination.
I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously.
Im a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the next generation of Millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we can grow a 21st century economy.
And Im a Republican who understands in Washington, when youre a leader, you have to put aside partisan politics to do whats right for the people.
We are one America.
We work together across party lines.
There is no problem we cant solve, and the 21st century will be Americas greatest century.
Thank you for having me here tonight.
How about a round of applause for Boulder, Colorado.
This is a beautiful place.
Looking at their academic standards, anybody gotten into the university has been invited to this debate tonight.
Here is my take on things.
Without national security, there is no economic security.
Without the sacrifice of the veterans, all of our hopes and dreams are at risk.
Just a few days ago, Hillary Clinton said that the problems with the DA are being exaggerated by Republicans.
They are not.
They are real.
Let me tell you what is real:  The threat to our homeland.
Ive never seen so many threats to our homeland than I do today.
Barack Obama is an incompetent commander in chief.
There are more terrorist organizations with safe havens to attack the American homeland than any time since 9/11.
We are in the process of reducing our defense spending by half.
Im looking at this budget with one view in mind.
Will it restore the ability to defend this nation?
We are on track to have the smallest Army since 1940.
The smallest Navy since 1915.
This budget, if it is paid for, will put $40 billion back in the Defense Department at a time we need it.
The number one role of the Federal Government is to defend this nation.
I intend to be a commander in chief that can win a war we cannot afford to lose.
Heres the problem.
Were being walked all over because our Commander in Chief is weak in the eyes of our enemies.
Do you think Putin would be in the Ukraine today if Ronald Reagan were President?
Why are the Chinese stealing are our intellectual property, hacking into our system?
Why are they building islands over resource-rich waters?
Because they can get away with it.
At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign policy of Barack Obama needs to be replaced and the last person you want to find to replace his foreign policy is his Secretary of State.
So, to the Chinese, when it comes to dealing with me, youve got a clenched fist and an open hand.
You pick.
The party is over to all the dictators.
Make me commander in chief and this crap stops.
No, I think Im trying to solve problems that somebody better solve.
Now, you dont have to believe that climate change is real.
I have been to the Antarctic; Ive been to Alaska.
Im not a scientist, and Ive got the grades to prove it.
But Ive talked to the climatologists of the world, and 90 percent of them are telling me that greenhouse gas effect is real.
That were heating up the planet.
I just want a solution that would be good for the economy that doesnt destroy it.
I want to fix an immigration system.
Im not going to tell you if you like your doctor, you can keep them; if you like your healthcare, you can keep it.
Im tired of telling people things that they want to hear that we know were not going to do.
Were not going to eliminate the corporate tax, but we can make it lower.
Were going to fix immigration only if we work together.
I want to secure the border, because if we dont, were going to get hurt and hit again.
I want to fix a broken visa system.
I want to increase legal immigration because were going to have a shortage of workers over time.
As to the 11 million, I want to talk about fixing the problem.
Were not going to deport 11 million people and their legal citizen children, but we will deport felons.
And those who stay will have to learn our language to stay, because I dont speak it well, but look how far  how, at the end of the day, folks, I am trying to solve the problem and win an election.
Im tired of losing.
Good God, look who were running against.
The number one candidate on the other side thought she was flat broke after her and her husband were in the White House for eight years.
The number two guy went to the Soviet Union on his honeymoon, and I dont think he ever came back.
If we dont beat these people
The first thing we have to do is come to grips with the reality that were facing as Americans.
In 1950, there were 16 workers for every Social Security recipient.
Today theres three.
In 20 years, there are two.
I want to make sure that no American company leaves America because you cant find a worker.
American workers always get the first preference, but if you cant find an American worker after you advertise at a competitive wage, I dont want you to be at a loss.
Bring people in based on merit.
Lets take a broken immigration
and make a merit-based immigration system that will help our economy.
Were going to need workers in the
We owe to every businessperson and worker in America the best environment in the world to create a job.
We owe that to American business.
35 percent corporate tax rate is the second highest in the world.
We need to lower it so they dont leave.
The goal is to help the middle class.
We can talk about corporations all day long, but my goal is to help the middle class, somebody who makes too much to be on government assistance but still lives paycheck to paycheck.
When the kid gets sick, you dont go on vacation.
Thats the purpose of my presidency, to grow the economy here.
And let me tell you, our democratic friends have a list a mile long for more government.
Thats not going to grow the middle class.
Thats going to create a burden on your children, which they are already overburdened.
The best way to grow the middle class is to make it a good place to create a job.
Do you know why Boeing came to South Carolina when they could have gone anywhere to build the 787?
Because we wanted them.
We had a structure
a structure that allowed them to build the building even faster than they thought they could build it.
We welcomed them there.
Im going to take the South Carolina
I think everybody owes an obligation to the country.
The ones that Im most worried about are the 1 percent of Americans in uniform who have been fighting this war for 14 years.
They need a commander in chief who knows what the hell theyre doing.
My first job as President of the United States is to rebuild the military and use it smartly.
Admiral Mullen said the debt is a big threat to our national security.
Hes right.
But people go where theyre welcome when it comes to job creation.
If I am President of the United States, you will be welcomed in America.
This will be the place to come when it comes to a job.
If I am
Now, if youre looking for good beer policy, Im your best bet.
My dad owned the bar.
I know beer.
We grew up, my sister and myself, in the back of that bar, in one room with my mom, my dad and my sister, who is nine years younger.
When I was 21, my mom was diagnosed with Hodgkins disease.
Neither parent finished high school.
She died within a year.
We were wiped out from the medical bills.
And if it wasnt for Social Security survivor benefit check coming into my family, we wouldnt have made it.
Because my dad died 15 months later.
So Im
Wait a minute, please.
Im 22, and were wiped out.
I am 60.
Im not married; I have a military retirement.
Im in good shape.
I would give up some of my benefits to help those who need it more than I do.
To young people here, I will ask you to work a little bit longer because we have to.
The purpose of my presidency
is to save this country.
And to save Social Security by working across the aisle, just like Ronald Reagan.
This is the biggest issue facing this nation.
Well, number one, the only reason I have an iPhone is because I gave my number to Donald Trump.
Dont do that.
That was more upgrading technology in my whole staff.
Number one, FOX News.
Sorry, CNBC.
Were in the Republican primary here.
Well, I think a national holiday would be the day that Commander in Chief Barack Obama doesnt have that job.
But unlike these other three, I want to win New Hampshire.
Go Tom Brady, go Patriots.
Somebody said, or maybe I saw it on the bill of a cap:  Lets make America great again.
America is great!
I intend to make America strong again.
Im going to be the champion of the middle class where I came from.
If you make me your President, our best days are ahead.
Im ready to be commander in chief.
Ladies and gentlemen, on day one, I intend to win a war that we cannot afford to lose.
I will be a commander in chief worthy of sacrifice of those brave Americans who have been defending our nation.
They have had our back.
God knows they have had our back.
I intend to have their back as commander in chief.
Make me commander in chief.
Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.
I've watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out -- out in the -- in the cold.
I've heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 -- people here from this country out of this country, splitting families.
I've heard about tax schemes that don't add up, that put our kids in -- in a deeper hole than they are today.
We need somebody who can lead.
We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes... You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again.
Well I want to comment on this.
This is the fantasy...
This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.
You can't do it with empty promised.
You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.
I actually have a plan.
I'm the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I'm realistic.
You just don't make promises like this.
Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up -- coming up with these fantasy tax schemes.
We'll just clean it up.
Where are you gonna clean it up?
You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending.
You gotta be creative and imaginative.
Now, let me just be clear, John.
I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus.
We're up 347,000 jobs.
When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced.
I was the architect.
It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon.
We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.
That's was hard work.
Fiscal discipline, know what you're doing.
Creativity.
This stuff is fantasy.
Just like getting rid of Medicare and Medicaid.
Come on, that's just not -- you scare senior citizens with that.
It's not responsible.
Well, I mean right here.
To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government?
And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse?
Or that we're just going to be great?
Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans -- or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?
Folks, we've got to wake up.
We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job.
You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.
And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio.
And I will go back to Washington with my plan.
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass.
And we will be strong again.
Thank you.
Let me just -- let me respond.
First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we're diversified.
We're one of the fastest growing states in the country.
We came back from the dead.
And you know what?
It works very, very well.
And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers.
I was a banker and I was proud of it.
And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.
We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work.
My state is doing great across the board.
And guess what, in 2011, I got a deal... ... an agreement with the... ... that he tried to take credit for four years later.
It's a joke.
John Harwood, there's a bigger issue here.
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare.
If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well.
Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive.
Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state -- $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.
I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.
This is the same old stuff since I left.
You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow.
I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget.
We actually did it.
And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.
Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes.
You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy.
So what I will tell you about our incentives -- our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.
And you know what?
Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country -- I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals... ...
If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now.
And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster.
Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on.
We could do a whole show on that.
I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality.
My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.
The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety.
I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.
And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise.
Again... ...One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average.
We've cut taxes, balanced budgets, changed the regulatory environment.
Folks, you want to --
-- fix America, this is the formula.
It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio.
Thank you.
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.
And so much of what we did -- to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups -- can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?
We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare.
We can make a stronger program.
But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy.
You can't grow your way out of demographics.
But we can give people better health care.
And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating -- keep giving... ...incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick?
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?"
I said, absolutely, you can still change the world.
And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you've changed the world.
Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I'll tell you another problem.
We need to rebuild our families.
We need to have stronger families.
We need to know who our neighbors are.
We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down.
Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods.
We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will.
And God bless America.
Well, John, I don't really have any weaknesses that I can think of.
But my wife is down here in the front, and I'm sure, if you'd like to talk to her later, she can give you more than you'll ever be able to take care of.
If I have a weakness, it's that I try to live by the rules.
I try to live by the rules, no matter what they are, and I was brought up that way as a kid.
Play by the rules.
And I'll tell you what a weakness is of this country: there are a lot of people who are sick and tired because Washington does not play by the same rules that the American people have to play by.
Well, I would really appreciate that.
First of all, yes, we've stolen.
Yes, we've lied to the American people about Social Security, and Medicare.
But, you know what we're not telling them?
It's their money.
This isn't the governments money.
This is not entitlement, it's not welfare.
This is money that people have confiscated out of their paychecks.
Everytime they got a paycheck, the government reached in and took something out of it before they ever saw it.
Now, we're going to blame the people.
Today congress decided to take another $150 billion dollars away from Social Security so they can borrow more money.
That makes no sense to everybody.
And, they're always going to say, "Well, we're going to fix this one day."
No their not.
It's like a 400 pound man saying, "I'm going to go on a diet, but I'm eating a sack of Krispy Kremes before I do."
And, people are sick of believing that the government is never going to really address this.
But, let me tell you who not to blame.
Let's quit blaming the people on Social Security.
Let's quit making it a problem for them.
It's like them getting mugged, and then us saying, well, we're going to mug you some more.
You ought to just be able to get over it, get used to it... ...No, sir... ...we need to honor our promises... ...before I go.
This is the only time I've had a chance, let me finish.
...This is a matter not of math, this is a matter of morality.
If this country that does not keep its promise to seniors then what promise can this country hope to be trusted to keep?
And, the fact is, none of them.
And, the only way -- no... ...Chris... ...Chris...
Since he brought me up, do I not get to respond?
John, listen, let's keep in mind that for one-third of the 60 million Americans on Social Security it represents 90 percent of their income.
And, when I hear people talking about means testing, let's just remember what that means.
If we means test Social Security, it means that the government decides whether or not I deserve it.
If a person lives in a seven room house, does the government get to say you don't need seven rooms, we're going to take two of them away?
Folks, the government has no business stealing even more from the people who have paid this in.
I just want to remind you, people paid their money.
They expect to have it.
And, if this government doesn't pay it, than tell me what's different between the government and Bernie Madolf, who sits in prison today for doing less than what the government has done to the people on social security and Medicare in this country.
I don't think it's so much about when the government orders a corporation to do something.
In fact, that's part of the problem.
If you saw that blimp that got cut loose from Maryland today, it's a perfect example of government.
I mean, what we had was something the government made -- basically a bag of gas -- that cut loose, destroyed everything in its path, left thousands of people powerless, but they couldn't get rid of it because we had too much money invested in it, so we had to keep it.
That is our government today.
We saw it in the blimp.
That's exactly what we saw.
So look, corporations ought to exercise some responsibility.
When CEO income has risen 90 percent above the average worker, when the bottom 90 percent of this country's economy has had stagnant wages for the past 40 years, somebody is taking it in the teeth.
And it's not the folks on Wall Street.
I'm not anti-Wall Street, but I don't believe the government ought to wear a team jersey, pick winners and losers.
The government ought to wear a striped shirt and just make sure the game... ...is paid -- played fairly.
Let me just close it out this way.
We need to be focusing on what fixes this country.
And I'll tell you one thing that we never talk about -- we haven't talked about it tonight.
Why aren't we talking about -- instead of cutting benefits for old people, cutting benefits for sick people -- why don't we say, "let's cure the four big cost-driving diseases... ..."diabetes, heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer's?"
If you do that, you don't just change the economy, you transform the lives of millions of hurting Americans.
Gosh, I'd love for us to talk about something like that.
Thank you.
QUICK: Governor, thank you.
Appreciate it.
You know, of the few questions I've got, the last one I need is to give him some more time.
I love Donald Trump.
He is a good man.
I'm wearing a Trump tie tonight.
Get over that one, OK?
Let me tell you, Donald Trump would be a president every day of the week and twice on Sunday, rather than Hillary.
I've spent a lifetime in politics fighting the Clinton machine.
You want to talk about what we're going to be up against next year?
I'm the only guy on this stage -- you know, everybody has an "only guy" -- "I'm the only guy this; I'm the only guy that."
Well, let me tell you one thing that I am the only guy: The only guy that has consistently fought the Clinton machine every election I was ever in over the past 26 years.
And not only did I fight them, but I beat them.
Somebody says "I'm a fighter."
Well, I want to know, did you win?
Well, I did.
And not only did I fight them and win, I lived to tell about it and I'm standing on this stage tonight as evidence of that.
And I think that ought to be worth something.
Well, and specifically to Medicare, Becky, because 85 percent of the cost of Medicare is chronic disease.
The fact is if we don't address what's costing so much, we can't throw enough money at this.
And it's why I've continued to focus on the fact that we need to declare war on the four big cost drivers because 80 percent of all medical costs in this country are chronic disease.
We don't have a health care crisis in America, we have a health crisis.
And until we deal with the health of Americans and do what we did with polio -- when I was a little kid, we eradicated it.
You know how much money we spent on polio last year in America?
We didn't spend any.
We've saved billions of dollars.
You want to fix Medicare?
Focus on the diseases that are costing us the trillions of dollars.
Alzheimers, diabetes, heart disease and cancer.
Eradicate those and you fix Medicare and you've fixed America, its economy and you've made people's lives a heck of a lot better.
You know, I know to a lot of people in the media, this is just a great big game, and we're the players.
And, we come out here, and we do our thing.
And, sometimes we're held up in contempt by people who write columns, but, I guarantee you to every person on this stage there's something deep inside of us that would cause us to give up our livelihoods and step out on this stage and fight for the people of America.
I've got five grandkids.
I do not want to walk my five grandkids through the charred remains of a once great country called America, and say, "Here you go, $20 trillion dollars of debt.
Good luck making something out of this mess."
And, for those of us who are serious enough to run for president, think long and hard why we're here, and hopefully you'll know we're not here for ourselves.
We honest to god are here to get this country back on track.
I know this, I certainly am.
You know, I am by my nature impatient.
And this is not an endeavor that rewards that.
You gotta be patient.
You gotta be -- stick with it, and all that.
But also, I can't fake anger.
I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country.
It's never been that way in American politics before.
I can't do it.
I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply -- you know, going down.
I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.
Could I -- could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work.
He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field.
He's a gifted politician.
But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work.
I mean, literally, the Senate -- what is it, like a French work week?
You get, like, three days where you have to show up?
You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job.
There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.
No, no.
What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.
But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.
(inaudible), the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future.
They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.
And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.
Well, the deal was done.
Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts.
You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation.
And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.
And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.
We need to reverse that.
And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year.
You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record.
$19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income.
You find me... You find me a Democrat -- you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars?
Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars.
I'll talk to them.
Look, the -- the deal is already done.
The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up.
You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes -- cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss.
Look, the -- the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family.
And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.
Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and -- and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do.
You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost -- that's why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now.
The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this.
And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.
The government has tried it their way.
Under -- under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it their way, and it has failed miserably.
We need to take a new approach of taxing -- reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our -- in our country before it's too late.
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.
It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government.
It is broke, it is not working.
Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.
Gronkowski is still going strong.
I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week.
So I'm doing great.
But we're not gambling.
And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation.
Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all.
And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.
If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit.
And there should be some regulation.
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.
-- the governor's absolutely right.
But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security.
We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.
I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.
You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market.
The idea of 401(k)s. I have a small business that I set up.
It took -- it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k).
Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive.
We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.
But the idea that you can't -- that you're just gonna grow your way out of this -- I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.
America's at a crossroads.
The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse.
I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.
I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee.
I will do so in a way that will bring people together.
We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.
Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again.
Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again.
I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
Thank you for that question.
I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.
I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us.
And that doesn't have to be true.
Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now.
If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation.
Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck.
They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.
You have small businesses in America that are struggling.
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting.
We have a world that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies.
And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.
We have a -- they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington?
We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.
The time to act is now.
The time to turn the page is now.
If we -- if we don't act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves.
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement.
It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.
Let me -- let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today.
Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes.
I don't recall them calling for his resignation --
Well, it's interesting.
Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport.
You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?
No Jeb, I don't remember -- well, let me tell you.
I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record.
The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.
I'm not -- my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage.
I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush.
I'm not running against Governor Bush, I'm not running against anyone on this stage.
I'm running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama.
Here's the truth.
I didn't inherit any money.
My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid.
They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.
They didn't save enough money for us to go to school.
I had to work my way through school.
I had to borrow money to go to school.
I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.
I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard.
We've worked hard our whole life to provide a better family -- a better life for our family.
We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in.
My four children have been able to receive a good Christian education, and I've been able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans that I did.
But I'm not worried about my finances, I'm worried about the finances of everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more.
And that's what this economy needs to -- that's what this debate needs to be about.
This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we've always said this country is all about.
And I used it to pay off my loans.
And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book.
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.
It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a book.
I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families.
And I make a lot more than the average American.
Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.
We can't afford another four years of that.
Which is what we're gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.
Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again.
If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.
The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms.
For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days.
You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.
But here's the best solution of all.
We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century.
Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work.
But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs.
But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those -- those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.
But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad.
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?...
and I'll tell you why.
Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee.
She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements."
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video.
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK. You know, the Democrats who have the ultimate super PAC, it's called the mainstream media.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
And I'll tell you why, last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee, she admitted she had sent emails to her family saying, hey, this attack in Benghazi was caused by al Qaeda-like elements.
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video.
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
Number one, you have people in this country that... ...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.
We are lowering taxes on small business.
You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning.
He's an S corporation.
He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate.
Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income.
That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses.
...The other thing I'd like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn't tax investments at all.
You know why?
Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.
I want to be in -- I want America to be the best... ...in the world for people...
I was mentioned in the question.
Well, I've learned the rules on this.
Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents.
Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here.
And that's the way my parents came legally in 1956.
But in 2015, we have a very different economy.
Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based.
It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American.
No.
No.
What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas.
They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them.
But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in that Democrat debate.
You didn't see it for a minute.
You didn't see these kind of ideas being batted around, and being batted around in a way that's civil and smart and that's trying to help to inform the voter out there.
What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that for free."
Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for it.
And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing.
And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue.
The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates.
The Democrats can't even come up with one.
And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight.
Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations.
Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries.
My mother is on Medicare and Social Security.
I'm against anything that's bad for my mother.
So, we're talking about -- we're talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very reasonable.
And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us.
You know, America doesn't owe me anything.
I have a debt to America I'll never repay.
This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family.
My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did.
We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.
The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special.
But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away.
And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president.
Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much.
I'm too trusting.
And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive.
I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me.
So I don't know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said "let up."
No, not a comic book, and it's not a very nicely asked question the way you say that.
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan.
We're reducing taxes to 15 percent.
We're bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions.
We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in.
As far as the wall is concerned, we're going to build a wall.
We're going to create a border.
We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally.
They're going to come in legally.
And it's something that can be done, and I get questioned about that.
They built the great wall of China.
That's 13,000 miles.
Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers.
So we need 1,000.
We can do a wall.
We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall.
We're going to have people come in, but they're coming in legally.
And Mexico's going to pay for the wall because Mexico -- I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders -- but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.
And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay?
A politician other than the people in the states -- I don't want to -- a politician cannot get them to pay.
I can.
We lose, we have a trade imbalance...Excuse me, John.
... of $50 billion... ... believe me the world is peanuts by comparison.
Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who's a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump's tax plan.
Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened.
And Lehman Brothers started it all.
He was on the board.
And he was a managing general partner.
And just thirdly, he was so nice.
He was such a nice guy.
And he said, oh, I'm never going to attack.
But then his poll numbers tanked.
He has got -- that is why he is on the end.
(LAUGHTER) And he got nasty.
And he got nasty.
So you know what?
You can have him.
Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I'm not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they've all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit.
Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman.
Atlantic City has gone bad.
I mean, Chris will know about that.
I'm not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that.
Caesar's -- excuse me -- Caesar's, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy.
Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy -- the biggest.
But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you're using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived.
I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds.
And I'm glad I did it.
I used the laws of the country to my benefit, I'm sorry.
I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley.
So I have nothing at all critical of him.
But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money.
SuperPacs are a disaster.
They're a scam.
They cause dishonesty.
And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- well, I guess I could.
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
I never said that.
I never said that.
You've got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not... ... he's really doing some bad...
I never said that.
I never said that.
He has got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not... Everybody is really doing some bad fact...
I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally.
And you know what?
They can have it anyway you want.
You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want.
I've created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect -- and actually some of these folks I really like a lot -- but I'm the only one that can say that.
I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I'll be creating many millions of jobs if I'm given -- if I'm given the opportunity to be president.
As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have -- it's fine.
They have to come into this country legally.
We have a country of borders.
We have a country of laws.
We have to obey the laws.
It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.
Yes, I might feel more comfortable.
I would say that I would and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York -- a permit to carry.
And I do carry on occasion, sometimes a lot.
But I like to be unpredictable so that people don't know exactly... (LAUGHTER)
By the way, unlike our country where we're totally predictable and the enemy, whether it's ISIS or anybody else, they know exactly what we're doing because we have the wrong leadership.
But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that's target practice for the sickos and for the mentally ill. That's target.
They look around for gun-free zones.
You know, we could give you another example -- the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed.
Two of them were among the most highly decorated -- they weren't allowed on a military base to have guns.
And somebody walked in and shot them, killed them.
If they had guns, he wouldn't be around very long.
I can tell you, there wouldn't have been much damage.
So, I think gun-free zones are a catastrophe.
They're a feeding frenzy for sick people.
I would change them.
I would change them.
Such a nasty -- such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor.
Yes, it's very simple.
We're going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic.
We're going to bring jobs back from Japan, we're going to bring jobs back from China, we're going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they're moving it to Mexico.
We're going to bring jobs and manufacturing back.
We're going to cut costs.
We're going to save Social Security, and we're going to save Medicare.
Our country doesn't win anymore.
We used to win, we don't win anymore.
We lose on trade.
We lose with ISIS.
We lose with one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated of any kind, that's our recent catastrophe with Iran.
We don't win.
Let me give you one quick example.
These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours.
I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
I went out and said, it's ridiculous.
Nobody -- I could stand up here all night.
Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours.
It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben.
We called Ben, he was with me 100%.
We called in, we said, that's it.
We're not doing it.
They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn't be done.
Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here.
Not bad.
And, I'll do that with the country.
We will make America great again.
And, thank you everybody.
Just for the record.
That's not right.
That is absolutely not right.
You know that.
That is not right.
Probably in terms of the applying for the job of president, a weakness would be not really seeing myself in that position until hundreds of thousands of people began to tell me that I needed to do it.
I do, however, believe in Reagan's 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here.
And recognizing that it's so important, this election, because we're talking about America for the people versus America for the government.
Well, first of all, I didn't say that the rate would be 10 percent.
I used the tithing analogy.
The rate -- the rate -- the rate is gonna be much closer to 15 percent.
You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes.
You also have to some strategically cutting in several places.
Remember, we have 645 federal agencies and sub-agencies.
Anybody who tells me that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world.
So, also, we can stimulate the economy.
That's gonna be the real growth engine.
Stimulating the economy -- because it's tethered down right now with so many regulations... That's not true.
When -- when we put all the facts down, you'll be able to see that it's not true, it works out very well.
Let me just say, if you're talking about an $18 trillion economy, you're talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product.
You're talking about $2.7 trillion.
We have a budget closer to $3.5 trillion.
But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount up pretty quickly.
So that is not by any stretch a pie in the sky.
Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don't take into consideration the American people.
What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American?
And you think about the reasons that we're having such difficulty right now with our job market.
So what we're going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on this group or this group, is we're going to have to have a major reduction in the regulatory influence that is going on.
The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is what is causing the problem.
Well, obviously, you don't understand my views on homosexuality.
I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect.
I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman.
And there is no reason that you can't be perfectly fair to the gay community.
They shouldn't automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe.
And this is one of the myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten people and get people to shut up.
You know, that's what the PC culture is all about, and it's destroying this nation.
The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other's enemies, it's those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies.
And we need to make that very clear to everybody.
I did a couple of speeches for them, I do speeches for other people.
They were paid speeches.
It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a relationship with them.
Do I take the product?
Yes.
I think it's a good product.
If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission.
No, it speaks to the fact that I don't know those --
See?
They know.... the best results, wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?
But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money.
Super PACs are a disaster.
They're a scam.
They cause dishonesty.
And you had better get rid of them, because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- but I guess I could.
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you had better get rid of the super PACs, because they're causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that are being made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy.
I have studied that issue in great detail.
And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are.
And -- you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing winners and losers -- this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great deal of -- great deal of problems for our society right now.
And -- and -- you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which are in everything.
The reason that I -- I hate them so much is because every single regulation costs in terms of goods and services.
That cost gets passed on to the people.
Now, who are the people who are hurt by that?
It's poor people and middle class.
Doesn't hurt rich people if their bar of soap goes up ten cents, but it hurts the poor and the middle class.
And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it's because of the rich.
Well, I'll tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won't even make a dent in it.
Well, first of all the -- the plan gives people the option of -- of opting out.
But I think they will see a very good option here.
You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion.
And there are 48 million people involved -- 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other.
Divide that out.
That comes out to $12,500 for each one.
Now, I can tell you there are a lot of private-sector things that you could do with $12,500, which will get you a lot more than you get from this government program.
And that's really a theme of a lot of the things that I'm talking about.
How do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its, quote, "intellect," in order to help us to be able to live healthier and better lives?
It was never intended that the government should be in every aspect of our lives.
This is a country that is of, for and by the people.
I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps.
And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers.
And, this is what I am finding throughout America.
People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the direction of our country.
And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.
Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn't smile enough.
(LAUGHTER)
But I also think that these are very serious times; 75 percent of the American people think the federal government is corrupt.
I agree with them.
And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected.
Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years.
We have more Americans out of work or just Americans who quit looking for work for 40 years.
Ours was intended to be a citizen government.
This is about more than replacing a D with an R. We need a leader who will help us take our government back.
Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.?
We have been talking about it for decades.
We now have a 73,000-page tax code.
There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone.
There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think tanks about how to reform the tax code.
The problem is we never get it done.
We have talked about tax reform in every single election for decades.
It never happens.
And the politicians always say it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.
The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose it, to get it done.
No.
You know why three?
Because only if it's about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.
Three pages is about the maximum that a single business owner or a farmer or just a couple can understand without hiring somebody.
Almost 60 percent of American people now need to hire an expert to understand their taxes.
So yes, you're going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform --
-- the issue is who is going to get it done.
You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent -- 80 percent -- and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover.
I was recruited to H.P.
to save a company.
It was a company that had grown into a bloated, inept bureaucracy that cost too much and delivered too little to customers and shareholders.
It had missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.
As an outsider, I tackled H.P.
's entrenched problems head-on.
I cut the bureaucracy down to size, re-introduced accountability, focused on service, on innovation, on leading in every market, in every product segment.
And yes, it was a very difficult time.
However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally went out of business -- like Gateway -- taking all their jobs with them.
The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times.
I think, actually, people are looking for that in Washington now.
And yes, I was fired over a disagreement in the boardroom.
There are politics in the boardroom as well.
And yet the man who led my firing, Tom Perkins, an icon of Silicon Valley, has come out publicly and said, "you know what?
We were wrong.
She was right.
She was a great CEO.
She'd be a great president of the United States because the leadership she brought to H.P.
is exactly the leadership we need in Washington, D.C.
Well, this is one of the reasons why Tom Perkins and I had disagreements in the boardroom, Becky.
Nevertheless, one of the things that I think people don't always understand is how accountable a CEO actually is.
So you know, I had to report results every 90 days in excruciating detail.
I had to answer every single question about every single result and every single projection in public until there were no more questions.
And if I misrepresented those results or those projections in any way, I was held criminally liable.
Imagine -- imagine -- if a politician were held to that standard of account.
I will run on my record all day long.
And I believe people need a leader who is prepared to make tough calls in tough times and stand up... ...and be held accountable.
You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about.
Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C. for decades.
What's crony capitalism?
Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.
So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating?
Why are there five even bigger Wall Street banks now, instead of the ten we used to have on Wall Street?
Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small and the powerless -- in this case, 1,590 community banks -- go out of business.
You see, folks, this is how socialism starts.
Government causes a problem, and then government steps in to solve the problem.
This is why, fundamentally, we have to take our government back.
The student loan problem has been created by government.
Government trying to level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a problem.
The FCC jumping in now and saying, "we're going to put 400 pages of regulation over the Internet," is going to create massive problems.
But guess who pushed for that regulation?
The big Internet companies.
This is what's going on.
Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their advantage.
It's why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid.
It's why you see the pharmaceuticals getting together.
It's you see the health insurance companies getting together.
It's why you see the banks consolidating.
And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed.
Community- based businesses and farms are getting crushed.
Community banks are going out of business.
Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.
It is why we have to simplify.
It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.
It's the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.
92 percent -- 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama's first term belonged to women.
Senator Cruz is precisely right.
Three million women have fallen into poverty under this administration.
The number of women --
-- living in extreme poverty is the highest level on record.
I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies --
-- work better to lift everyone up, men and women.
No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.
Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets worse.
And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is talking about.
They are refusing to...
I think it's a wonderful that that businesses start a 401(k).
The point I'm making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up -- retirement plans.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government to be setting minimum wages... ...
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes.
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true... ...
The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.
John, I -- if I -- a lot of people have jumped in here.
I'd like to jump in.
A lot of people have jumped in here.
I understand....
I would just say this, we've heard a lot of great ideas up here, and I agree with what Senator Rubio said.
Every election we talk about this.
Every election we talk about Medicare and Social Security reform.
It never happens.
I would like to start with a basic.
Let us actually go to zero- based budgeting so we know where the money is being spent.
It's kind of basic.
There is a bill sitting in the House that would actually pass and have us go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every dime of your money is being spent instead of only talking about how much more we're going to spend year after year after year.
My point is this.
While there are lots of good ideas for reform, we have never tackled the basics.
And we finally need to tackle the basics to cut this government down to size and hold it accountable.
So let's start by knowing where your money is being spent by the federal government.
You know, every election we hear a lot of talk.
We hear a lot of good plans.
We hear actually a lot of good intentions.
But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed.
What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results.
That's how you go from secretary to CEO.
You lead and you produce results.
I will cut this government down to size and hold it accountable, simplify the tax code, roll back the regulations that have been spewing out of Washington, D.C. for 50 years.
I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary Clinton's worst nightmare.
And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina.
I will tell you this, I will beat Hillary Clinton.
And with your vote and your support and your prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of this great nation.
You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite.
I'm a fighter.
I am passionate about what I believe.
I've been passionate my whole life about the Constitution.
And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we've had a gigantic party.
If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy.
But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.
After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up.
The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary.
On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent.
Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business.
And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars.
Those are the hard numbers.
And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.
Growth is the answer.
And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.
You know, let me say something at the outset.
The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don't trust the media.
(APPLAUSE) This is not a cage match.
And, you look at the questions -- "Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?"
"Ben Carson, can you do math?"
"John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?"
"Marco Rubio, why don't you resign?"
"Jeb Bush, why have your numbers fallen?"
How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about?
And Carl -- Carl, I'm not finished yet.
The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?"
Let me be clear.
The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate.
That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.
And nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary.
The questions that are being asked shouldn't be trying to get people to tear into each other.
It should be what are your substantive positions... You want me to answer that question?
I'm happy to answer the question... Let me tell you how that question... Let me tell you how that question... ... so you don't actually want to hear the answer, John?
You don't want to hear the answer.
You just want to... You're not interested in an answer.
...Then I'll buy you a tequila... ...Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.
Well, sure.
This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken.
Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.
And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right.
Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers -- look.
I'm 44 years old.
It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us.
We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids.
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.
The Democrats' answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits.
You know, you look at women working.
I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family.
My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms.
My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.
Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together.
But I -- the struggle of single moms is extraordinary.
And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
But if you look at working men and women.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Let me say on that... ...Rand is exactly right.
His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax,
...eliminates the business... ...income tax... ...10% flat rate... ...is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS.
You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington.
The natural next question is who actually has done so.
Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party?
When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight.
If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it.
In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America.
Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.
I don't see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly.
Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage.
You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist.
And for the sake of me, I can't figure out which one is which.
But I know who the pessimist is.
It's Hillary Clinton.
And you put me on that stage against her next September, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House.
Take it to the bank.
Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know, who owns a landscaping business out there.
If somebody's already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more?
Or, are you going to deal with the problem by saying, I'm going to give people who've done well in this country less benefit on the backend.
We need to get realistic about this.
We're not -- the American people -- forget about anything else, they've already been lied to and stolen from.
And...
...I'm going to go to Washington to stop it...
...The only way we're going to be morale, the only way we're going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth.
You bet they do.
And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be.
The fact is that this Justice Department under this president has been a political Justice Department.
It has been a Justice Department that decided that they want to pick who the winners and losers are.
They like General Motors, so they give them a pass.
They don't like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and send a decorated general on to disgrace.
It's a political Justice Department.
And, Jim, you know full well that in the seven years I was U.S. attorney we went after pharmaceutical companies.
We went after companies that were ripping off shareholders.
We went after companies that were doing things that were against the law.
And to expand on Mr. Carson's -- or Dr. Carson's question, let's face it, we have laws already.
We don't need newer (ph) laws.
We don't need Hillary Clinton's price controls for -- again, does anybody out there think that giving Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good idea, given how well they have done running the government?
So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have laws for prosecutors to take that on.
Let's let a Justice Department -- and I will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more than just a word.
It will be a way of life.
And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does he support police officers?
Does he stand up for law enforcement?
No, he doesn't.
I'll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of the American people.
This president has failed, and when I'm in the Oval Office, police officers will know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States.
That's real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office.
Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football?
We have -- wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt.
We have people out of work.
We have ISIS and al Qaeda attacking us.
And we're talking about fantasy football?
Can we stop?
How about this?
How about we get the government to do what they're supposed to be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values and American families.
Enough on fantasy football.
Let people play, who cares?
Well, first off, what we don't do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it.
Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C.
What we should do is to be investing in all types of energy, John, all types of energy.
I've laid out... No, John.
John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer?
How are we going to do this?
Because, I've got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you're doing is called rude.
So...We've laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all types of energy.
I will tell you, you could win a bet at a bar tonight, since we're talking about fantasy football, if you ask who the top three states in America are that produce solar energy: California and Arizona are easy, but number three is New Jersey.
Why?
Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable and available to businesses and individuals in our state.
We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural gas, oil, absolutely.
But also where it's affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has become very affordable and it makes sense.
That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes, and for God's sake, don't send Washington another dime until they stop wasting the money they're already sending there.
And -- and -- and I -- you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don't need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem.
And that's what you'll hear from Hillary Clinton -- and I've already heard from her -- is that, send more money in Social Security, send more money in Medicare taxes, send more money for Medicaid, and that's gonna solve the problem.
What we know is we're living longer.
That's a blessing.
It's a blessing that we're living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that blessing.
We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if you've done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take more out of your taxes now and think they're gonna give it back to you later?
Or would you rather take less later on?
I want to talk to the folks at home.
I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you?
Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money?
Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America's future?
I've got one more question for you then.
Are you serious about this election?
Because if you are, you need to elect someone who's deadly serious about changing this culture.
I am deadly serious about changing this culture.
I changed it in New Jersey.
I'm deadly serious about doing this job the right way.
I'm prepared.
I'm tested.
I'm ready.
And I want to make this our government.
For the people who say we can't do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.
I will stand firm.
I will spend every ounce of energy to stop it.
I will begin tomorrow to filibuster it.
And I ask everyone in America to call Congress tomorrow and say enough is enough; no more debt.
No, I oppose it because you're taking money from the entitlement and then spending it immediately on other items.
That's what they're doing.
They're taking money from Social Security and they're going to spend it on the military and they're going to spend it on domestic spending.
Here's the thing.
When you look at raising the debt limit, it should be leverage to try to reform government.
In 2011, the sequester was passed as a reform to slow down the rate of government.
Instead, the Washington establishment raised both.
We raised the military spending, took from entitlements, and raised domestic spending and the deficit will explode under this.
This is the unholy alliance that people need to know about between right and left.
Right and left are spending us into oblivion.
We should use the debt ceiling, as precisely to Don, to force upon them budgetary reforms.
Well, that's a real question.
Is there going to be any change in the House with new leadership?
I frankly don't think there will be much change because I think what's going to happen is you're going to get more of the same.
People in Washington think they were sent there to be adults and govern and do all this.
Well, you know what I'm worried about?
Not keeping the government open.
I'm worried about bankrupting the American people.
We're borrowing a million dollars a minute.
That is important.
And that's what we have to contrast.
Keeping the government open and continuing to borrow a million dollars a minute.
Well, thank you very much.
I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed.
And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.
I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill.
I would prevent them lobbying Congress.
I don't think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.
I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem.
You want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.
Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.
What you need to do is free up interest rates.
Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn't have price controls on the price of money.
Well, thank you very much.
I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed.
And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.
I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill.
I would prevent them lobbying Congress.
I don't think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.
I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem.
You want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.
Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.
What you need to do is free up interest rates.
Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn't have price controls on the price of money.
...John... John, I'd like to address this?
John, could I follow up on this?
What are the rules on who gets to follow up.
How do we decide on who gets to follow up?
I've seen plenty of other people follow up?
I'd like to just mention something about my tax plan, and how it relates to the discussion... Alright.
Much of the discussion is centered over whether or not the different tax plans help, or affect the middle class.
In fact, it's the chief argument by democrats against many of the different flat tax proposals.
Mine is unique in the sense that my tax plan actually gets rid of the payroll tax as well.
It shifts it to the business, and it would allow middle class people to get a tax cut.
If you just cut their income tax, there isn't much income tax to cut.
Mine actually cuts the payroll tax, and I think it would spread the tax cut across all socioeconomic levels, and would allow then it to be something that would be broadly supported by the public in an election.
The question always is, what works better, the private marketplace or government?
And what distributes goods better?
It always seems to be the private marketplace does a better job.
Is there an area for a safety net?
Can you have Medicare or Social Security?
Yes.
But you ought to acknowledge the government doesn't do a very good job at it.
The main problem with Medicare right now is that the average person pays in taxes over their whole lifetime about $100,000.
But the average person takes out about $350,000.
We have this enormous mismatch because we have smaller and smaller families.
When people ask me, whose fault is it?
Whose fault is it that Medicare is broken, out of money, that Social Security is broken, out of money?
And I say, look, it's not Republicans' fault, it's not Democrats' fault, it's your grandparents' fault for having too many damn kids.
After the war we had all of these kids, Baby Boomers.
Now we're having smaller families.
We used to have 16 workers for one retiree, now you have three workers for one retiree.
It's not working.
I have a bill to fix Medicare.
I've a bill to fix Social Security.
For both of them you have to gradually raise the age.
If you're not willing to do that, nobody wants to do it, but if you're not willing to gradually raise the age, you're not serious about fixing either one of them.
You can't do nothing.
And that's what I hear from some people, "we'll do nothing and it will just be fixed."
That's absurd, and I think people who don't want to fix it, really, or unwilling to take the chance to say, "something has to change," are missing the boat here.
The age will have to gradually rise, there is no question.
It's the only way you fix Medicare, the only way you fix Social Security.
You will also have to means-test the benefits and declare there's not enough money.
It isn't "I put money in, I'm getting it back."
There is no money, it's a stack of paper.
There is no money in the Social Security account.
There is no money in the Medicare account.
There's only a promise to pay by the next generation, and the next generation's not big enough to pay it.
Liberty thrives when government is small.
I want a government so small I can barely see it.
I want a government so small that the individual has a chance to thrive and prosper.
I think, though, government is too big now.
And what you're going to see in Washington this week is establishment Republicans have made an agreement with the president to raise the debt ceiling in an unlimited fashion; no limit to the debt ceiling raise.
This is extraordinary.
It's extraordinarily wrong.
You'll see me on the floor of the Senate tomorrow filibustering this and saying enough is enough, no more debt.
Thank you, CNN, and thank you Facebook for organizing this debate.
Not only will Americans be electing a new president next year, we also will be electing a world leader.
Voters should assess the candidate's experience, character and vision for the future as they make this important decision.
I'm the only one running for president that has been a mayor, a United States senator, and a governor.
As mayor, I brought labor peace to my city and kept taxes down.
I was reelected three times.
As a senator, I earned a reputation for courageous votes against the Bush-Cheney tax cuts the favored the wealthy, against the tragedy of the Iraq war, for environmental stewardship, for protection of our civil liberties.
I served on the Foreign Relations Committee and I chaired the Middle East Subcommittee for four years.
As we look to the future, I want to address the income inequality, close the gap between the haves and the have-nots.
I want to address climate change, a real threat to our planet.
And I believe in prosperity through peace.
I want to end these wars.
I look forward to the discussion ahead.
Anderson, you're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
Whether it's... Did you hear what I said?
On the issues.
I have not changed on the issues.
I was a liberal Republican, then I was an independent, and now I'm a proud Democrat.
But I have not changed on the issues.
And I open my record to scrutiny.
Whether it's on the environment, a woman's right to choose, gay marriage, fiscal responsibility, aversion to foreign entanglements, using the tools of government to help the less fortunate.
Time and time again, I have never changed.
You're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
So I have not changed.
The party left me.
There's no doubt about that.
There was no room for a liberal moderate Republican in that party.
I even had a primary for my reelection in 2006.
I won it.
But the money poured in to defeat me in Rhode Island as a Republican.
That's what we were up against.
Yes, I have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation, but the reality is, despite these tragedies that happen time and time again, when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety legislation, the gun lobby moves in and tells the people they're coming to take away your guns.
And, they're successful at it, in Colorado and others states, the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated.
I even saw in Rhode Island.
So, I would bring the gun lobby in and say we've got to change this.
Where can we find common ground?
Wayne Lapierre from the NRA, whoever it is, the leaders.
Come one, we've go to change this.
We're not coming to take away your guns, we believe in the Second Amendment, but let's find common ground here.
Well, we just heard Senator Sanders say that it's the worst decision in American history.
That's very significant, the worst decision in American history, I just heard from Senator Sanders.
So, as we look ahead, if you're going to make those poor judgment calls, a critical time in our history, we just finished with the Vietnam era, getting back into another quagmire -- if you're looking ahead, and you're looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into Iraq when there was no real evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -- I know because I did my homework, and, so, that's an indication of how someone will perform in the future.
And that's what's important.
OK.
I just have to answer one thing that Senator Webb said about the Iran deal, because I'm a strong proponent of what President Obama -- and he said that because of that the Iran deal that enabled Russia to come in.
No, that's not true, Senator Webb.
I respect your foreign policy chops.
But Russia is aligned with Iran and with Assad and the Alawite Shias in Syria.
So that Iran deal did not allow Russia to come in.
It's certainly the chaos in the Middle East.
There's no doubt about it.
And it all started with the Iraq invasion.
Absolutely.
We have to repair American credibility after we told the world that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which he didn't.
So there's an issue of American credibility out there.
So any time someone is running to be our leader, and a world leader, which the American president is, credibility is an issue out there with the world.
And we have repair work to be done.
I think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president.
That's how I feel.
The Glass-Steagall was my very first vote, I'd just arrived, my dad had died in office, I was appointed to the office, it was my very first vote.
I'd just arrived at the Senate.
I think we'd get some takeovers, and that was one.
It was my very first vote, and it was 92-5.
It was the...
But let me just say...
I think you're being a little rough.
I'd just arrived at the United States Senate.
I'd been mayor of my city.
My dad had died.
I'd been appointed by the governor.
It was the first vote and it was 90-5, because it was a conference report.
But let me just say about income inequality.
We've had a lot of talk over the last few minutes, hours, or tens of minutes, but no one is saying how we're going to fix it.
And it all started with the Bush tax cuts that favored the wealthy.
So let's go back to the tax code.
And 0.6 percent of Americans are at the top echelon, over 464,000, 0.6 Americans.
That's less than 1 percent.
But they generate 30 percent of the revenue.
And they're doing fine.
So there's still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon.
I'm saying let's have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket.
And that will generate $42 billion.
And then we can help the middle class and hard-earning Americans -- hard-working Americans.
No, that was another 99 to one vote for the Patriot Act, and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what we've always done to tap phones which always required a warrant.
And I voted for that.
No, no.
As long as you're getting a warrant, I believe that under the Fourth Amendment, you should be able to do surveillance, but you need a warrant.
That's what the Fourth Amendment says.
And in the Patriot Act, section 215 started to get broadened too far.
So I would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of the Patriot Act.
No, I would bring him home.
The courts have ruled that what he did -- what he did was say the American... ... the American government was acting illegally.
That's what the federal courts have said; what Snowden did showed that the American government was acting illegally for the Fourth Amendment.
So I would bring him home.
Certainly, ending the wars.
We've got to stop these wars.
You have to have a new dynamic, a new paradigm.
We just spent a half-billion dollars arming and training soldiers, the rebel soldiers in Syria.
They quickly join the other side.
We bombed the...
I'd like to finish my question -- my answer.
And also we just bombed a hospital.
We've had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings.
So I would change how we -- our approach to the Middle East.
We need a new paradigm in the Middle East.
I guess the coal lobby.
I've worked hard for climate change and I want to work with the coal lobby.
But in my time in the Senate, tried to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide.
I'm proud to be at odds with the coal lobby.
Thank you, Anderson.
Thank you, CNN.
And thank you, Facebook, for sponsoring this debate.
America has many challenges confronting us -- ending the perpetual wars, addressing climate change, addressing income inequality, funding education, funding infrastructure, funding healthcare, helping black Americans, helping Native Americans.
We have many challenges.
Who is best able to confront these challenges?
I've served in government at many levels.
I know what it's like to solve problems at the local level because I did it as mayor.
I know how to get legislation passed through Congress because I did it as a senator.
I know how to turn around a state because I did as governor of Rhode Island.
But what I'm most proud of is that in 30 years of public service, I have had no scandals.
I have high ethical standards.
And what I'm most proud of is my judgment, particularly in the Iraq war vote.
There was a lot of pressure -- political pressure, public pressure.
But I did my homework and I did not believe that the evidence was there that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
And we live now with the consequences.
So that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward.
And I'm running for president to end the wars.
I want to be the peacemaker.
I am a proven peacemaker.
Please go to Chafee 2016 to learn more about me.
Thank you.
You know, people are disgusted with the way that money has corrupted our political process, intimidating incumbents and empowering Wall Street every day, the turnstile government that we see, and also the power of the financial sector in both parties.
They're looking for a leader who understands how the system works, who has not been coopted by it, and also has a proven record of accomplishing different things.
I have a record of working across the political aisle.
I've also spent more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent world of being an author, a journalist, and a sole proprietor.
In government service, I've fought and bled for our country in Vietnam as a Marine.
I spent years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Navy -- in the Reagan administration.
In the senate, I spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day one.
I also wrote and passed the best piece of veterans education legislation in history, the Post 9/11 G.I.
Bill.
I brought criminal justice reform out of the political shadows and into the national discussion.
I led what later became called the Strategic Pivot to Asia two years before President Obama was elected.
My mother grew up in the poverty of east Arkansas chopping cotton, picking strawberries.
Three of her seven siblings died in childhood.
My wife, Hong, came to this country as a refugee from war torn Vietnam -- learned English, a language that was not spoken at home, and earned her way into Cornell Law School.
I have five daughters.
Amy works with disabled veterans, Sarah is an emergency room nurse, Julia is a massage therapist, Emily and Georgia are still in school.
My son Jim fought as an infantry Marine on the bloody streets of Ramadi.
You may be sure that in a Webb administration, the highest priority will be the working people who every day go out and make this country stronger at home, and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a common sense foreign policy.
No, actually I believe that I am where the Democratic Party traditionally has been.
The Democratic Party, and the reason I've decided to run as a Democrat, has been the party that gives people who otherwise have no voice in the corridors of power a voice.
And that is not determined by race.
And as a clarification, I have always supported affirmative action for African Americans.
That's the way the program was originally designed because of their unique history in this country, with slavery and the Jim Crow laws that followed.
What I have discussed a number of times is the idea that when we create diversity programs that include everyone, quote, "of color," other than whites, struggling whites like the families in the Appalachian mountains, we're not being true to the Democratic Party principle of elevating the level of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who happen to be have -- by culture, by the way.
Look, there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion.
We need to pay respect to both of them.
The first is the issue of who should be kept from having guns and using firearms.
And we have done not a good job on that.
A lot of them are criminals.
And a lot of the people are getting killed are members of gangs inside our urban areas.
And a lot of them are mentally incapacitated.
And the shooting in Virginia Tech in '07, this individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals who were not allowed to share the information.
So we do need background checks.
We need to keep the people who should not have guns away from them.
But we have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and their family from violence.
May I?
People are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here.
There are people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The average American does not have that, and deserves the right to be able to protect their family.
Anderson, can I come into this discussion at some point?
Thank you.
I've been standing over here for about ten minutes, trying.
It's just -- it's gone back and forth over there.
Look, let's start -- I've been trying to get in this conversation for about 10 minutes -- let's start with why Russia is in Syria right now.
There are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur.
The first was the invasion of Iraq, which destabilized ethnic elements in Iraq and empowered Iran.
The second was the Arab Spring, which created huge vacuums in Libya and in Syria that allowed terrorist movements to move in there.
And the third was the recent deal allowing Iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon, which sent bad signals, bad body language into the region about whether we are acquiescing in Iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of the world.
Now, I say this as someone who spent five years in the Pentagon and who opposed the war in Iraq, whose son fought in Iraq, I've fought in Vietnam.
But if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy, a focus, the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our relationship with China.
And we need to do this because of their aggression in the region.
We need to do it because of the way they treat their own people.
And I would say this.
I've been waiting for 10 minutes.
I will say this.
I will -- well, you've let a lot of people go over their time.
I would say this... ... to the unelected, authoritarian government of China: You do not own the South China Sea.
You do not have the right to conduct cyber warfare against tens of millions of American citizens.
And in a Webb administration, we will do something about that.
Everybody makes their decisions when the time there is conscription.
And as long as they go through the legal process that our country requires, I respect that.
And it would be for the voters to decide whether Senator Sanders or anyone else should be president.
I will say this, coming from the position that I've come from, from a military family, with my brother a marine, my son was a marine in Iraq, I served as a marine, spending five years in the Pentagon, I am comfortable that I am the most qualified person standing up here today to be your commander-in-chief.
I believe that the signal that we sent to the region when the Iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting Iran's greater position on this very important balance of power, among our greatest ally Israel, and the Sunnis represented by the Saudi regime, and Iran.
It was a position of weakness and I think it encouraged the acts that we've seen in the past several weeks.
Our greatest long-term strategic challenge is our relation with China.
Our greatest day-to-day threat is cyber warfare against this country.
Our greatest military-operational threat is resolving the situations in the Middle East.
I hope I can get that kind of time here.
As a President of the United States, every life in this country matters.
At the same time, I believe I can say to you, I have had a long history of working with the situation of African Americans.
We're talking about criminal justice reform, I risked my political life raising the issue of criminal justice reform when I ran for the Senate in Virginia in 2006.
I had democratic party political consultants telling me I was committing political suicide.
We led that issue in the congress.
We started a national debate on it.
And it wasn't until then that the Republican Party started joining in.
I also represented a so-called war criminal, an African American Marine who was wounded -- who was convicted of murder in Vietnam, for six years.
He took his life three years into this.
I cleared his name after -- after three years.
And I put the African American soldier on the Mall.
I made that recommendation and fought for it.
So, if you want someone who is -- can stand up in front of you right now and say I have done the hard job, I have taken the risks, I am your person.
Bernie, say my name so I can get into this.
Anderson, I need to jump in (inaudible).
There is a reality that I think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector.
And let me just go back a minute and say that on this TARP program, I introduced a piece of legislation calling for a windfall profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than $5 billion, that it was time for them, once they got their compensation and their bonus, to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses and the truck drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out.
With respect to the financial sector, I mean, I know that my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind of frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name I can't get into the discussion.
All right.
Well, I'm trying to set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on.
This hasn't been equal time.
But if you want to look at what has happened, if we look at the facts in terms of how we're going to deal with this, since that crash, in the last 10 years, the amount of the world's capital economy that Wall Street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent.
That means the Wall Street money managers are not risking themselves as the same way the American people are when they're going to get their compensation.
They're managing money from all over the world.
We have to take that into consideration when we're looking at ways to regulate it.
I wouldn't have a problem with that.
Let me start by saying my wife is an immigrant.
She was a refugee, her family escaped from Vietnam on a boat-- her entire extended family, after the communists took over, when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying.
Went to two refugee camps, she never spoke English in her home, and she ended, as I said, graduating from Cornell Law School.
That's not only American dream, that's a value that we have with a good immigration system in place.
No country has -- is a country without defining its borders.
We need to resolve this issue.
I actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill...
...Giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here, and put down their roots, and met as a series of standards... ...lost (ph) -- I introduced that in 2007 -- We need a comprehensive reform, and we need to be able to define our borders.
I -- well, I -- I would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system.
Here's what I do believe.
We have a serious problem in terms of the collection of personal information in this country.
And one of the things that I did during the FISA bill in 2007, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was introduce with Russ Feingold two amendments basically saying, "We understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the Internet age, but after a certain period of time, you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought -- if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them."
We've got a vast data bank of information that is ripe for people with bad intentions to be able to use.
And they need to be destroyed.
I got a great deal of admiration and affection for Senator Sanders, but I -- Bernie, I don't think the revolution's going to come.
And I don't think the Congress is going to pay for a lot of this stuff.
And if there would be a major difference between my administration and the Obama administration, it would be in the use of executive authority.
I came up as a committee counsel in the Congress, used to put dozens of bills through the House floor every year as a committee counsel on the Veterans Committee.
I have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the congressional process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to paralyze what we're doing.
So I would lead -- working with both parties in the Congress and working through them in the traditional way that our Constitution sets (ph).
Well, the -- the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really want to address climate change?
And when I was in the Senate, I was an all-of-the-above energy voter.
We introduced legislation to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear power.
I'm a strong proponent of nuclear power.
It is safe, it is clean.
And really, we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here.
We've done a good job in this country since 1970.
If you look at China and India, they're the greatest polluters in the world.
Fifteen out of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries.
We need to solve this in a global way.
It's a global problem and I have been very strong on -- on doing that.
The -- the agreements -- the so-called agreements that we have had with China are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the -- of the Chinese government itself.
So let's solve this problem in an international way, and then we really will have a -- a way to address climate change.
I'd have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me, but he's not around right now to talk to.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be with you tonight.
You've heard a lot of promises up here; you've heard a lot of rhetoric.
They all seem to happen during campaigns, and then once the election's over, people start from scratch again and try to get things done.
One of the things I can promise you, if you look at my record, in and out of government, is that I've always been willing to take on a complicated, something unpopular issues, and work them through, the complex issues, and work them through in order to have the solution.
We did it with criminal justice reform.
We've had a lot of discussion here about criminal justice reform.
We did it in other ways.
We need a national political strategy for our economy, for our social policy, for social justice, and, by the way, for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in the world, which is the federal government.
I know how to lead.
I did it in Vietnam, I did it in the Pentagon, I did it in the Senate, and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of -- of financial irregularities and money that is poisoning our political process, I am ready to do that for you in the White House.
My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a father.
My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William and Jack.
And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier and better lives.
There are some things that I have learned to do better in life than others.
And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to be an effective leader.
Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very clear about my principals.
Thanks to President Obama, our country has come a long way since the Wall Street crash of 2008.
Our country's doing better, we are creating jobs again.
But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now.
For there is a -- deep injustice, an economic injustice that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve itself.
Injustice does not solve itself.
Our economy isn't money, it's people.
It's all of our people, and so we must invest in our country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt.
And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and make this threat our opportunity.
The future is what we make of it.
We are all in this together.
And, the question in this election is whether you and I still have the ability to give our kids a better future.
I believe we do, that is why I am running for president, and I need your help.
Yes, actually, I believe what she said was that there's a lot of policies that have led to this unrest.
But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1999... Well, let's talk about this a little bit.
One of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie Gray's tragic death.
Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999, it was not because our city was doing well.
It was because we allowed ourselves to become the most violent, addicted, and abandoned city in America.
I did not make our city immune to setbacks.
But I attended a lot of funerals, including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a poor African-American neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner.
We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together.
And the vast majority of them were young and poor and black.
It wasn't easy on any day.
But we saved lives and we gave our city a better future, improving police and community relations every single day that I was in office.
Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word "settle."
That's true.
It was settled.
Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime.
Look, none of this is easy.
None of us has all the answers.
But together as a city, we saved a lot of lives.
It was about leadership.
It was about principle.
And it was about bringing people together.
And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done.
Look, it's fine to talk about all of these things -- and I'm glad we're talking about these things -- but I've actually done them.
We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said.
We actually did it.
And, Anderson, here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real.
Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado.
And their daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora.
Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case, you want to talk about a -- a rigged game, Senator?
The game was rigged.
A man had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this -- this person that killed their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where it was going.
And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our Congress and we take a backseat.
It's time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation.
Senator, it is not about rural -- Senator, it was not about rural and urban.
Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore?
Have you ever been to Western Maryland?
We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas.
And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA.
And I have an F from the NRA, Senator.
Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.
...Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state -- when the NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually did.
And that's why, not only did we pass it, but the NRA didn't... ...dare to petition a referendum... ...Because we built a public consensus... COOPER: ...I want to move on to another issue, which is in the headlines right now, another crisis making headlines.
Secretary Clinton, Russia, they're challenging the U.S. in Syria.
According to U.S. intelligence, they've lied about who they're bombing.
You spearheaded the reset with Russia.
Did you underestimate the Russians, and as president, what would your response to Vladimir Putin be right now in Syria?
Anderson, no president -- no commander in chief -- should take the military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option.
What disturbed people so much about -- and I would agree with Senator Sanders on this -- leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us, as a people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was -- was one of the worst blunders in modern American history.
But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls.
And I remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion.
People were talking at -- and saying, "it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy," and I thought, "has this world gone mad?"
Whenever we go -- and contrary to John Quincy Adams' advice -- "searching the world for monsters to destroy," and when we use political might to take a -- at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves, and we hurt our (inaudible).
I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool.
I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually, Secretary, would be a mistake.
You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe, especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident that we would deeply regret.
I support President Obama.
I think we have to play a long game, and I think, ultimately -- you want to talk about blunders?
I think Assad's invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder.
Anderson, I think we are learning... Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi.
And those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends.
And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do.
But he did not have the tools.
We have failed as a country to invest in the human intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but better decisions in Syria today.
And it's a huge national security failing.
I believe that nuclear Iran remains the biggest threat, along with the threat of ISIL; climate change, of course, makes cascading threats even more (inaudible).
I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long -- what the FBI's asking about.
Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt free, and all the issues.
Which is why -- and I see the chair of the DNC here, look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the kitchen table.
We need to get wages to go up, college more affordable... ...we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050.
Anderson, the point that the Black Lives Matter movement is making is a very, very legitimate and serious point, and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives, people of color.
When I ran for Mayor of Baltimore -- and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year, mostly young, and poor, and black, and I said to our legislature, at the time when I appeared in front of them as a mayor, that if we were burying white, young, poor men in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a different reaction.
Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system, and to address race relations in our country.
Yes.
Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state.
We raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college tuition.
But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but he's been excellent about underscoring that.
And that is that we need to separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money, from the commercial banking -- namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago.
And Secretary, I was proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions of savings for families.
And we are still just as vulnerable Paul Volcker says today.
We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates.
Anderson, look, this is -- the big banks -- I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP.
And -- (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things.
But one of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam Secretary, is that you are not for Glass-Steagall.
You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior.
I am, and the people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
And Juan Carlos -- Juan Carlos... Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked.
We need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of new American immigrants.
That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on DACA, and DAPA.
I mean, we are a nation of immigrants, we are made stronger by immigrants.
Do you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in a broken que on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that care isn't going to fall on to our insurance rates?
I am for a generous, compassionate America that says we're all in this together.
We need comprehensive
...immigration reform.
It'll make wages go up in America $250 for every year...
Here.
Here.
Anderson, we actually did this in my state of Maryland.
We passed... We passed a state version of the DREAM Act... ...And a lot of the xenophobes, the immigrant haters like some that we've heard like, Donald Trump, that carnival barker in the Republican party...
Tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants.
But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we won with 58 percent of the vote.
The more our children learn, the more they will earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized... ...but will become American citizens... Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk.
Snowden broke the law.
Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from Putin.
If he really believes that, he should be back here.
I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail, too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen again.
Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution.
What we need is a green energy revolution.
We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.
Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation.
And I will share with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two phrases I keep hearing again and again and again.
And they're the phrases "new leadership" and "getting things done."
We cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and think that a resort to old names is going to move us forward.
I respect what Secretary Clinton and her husband have done for our country.
But our country needs new leadership to move forward.
Anna, I have put forward a plan -- and I'm the only candidate, I believe, in either party to do this -- to move America forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
We did not land a man on the moon with an all-of-the-above strategy.
It was an intentional engineering challenge, and we solved it as a nation.
And our nation must solve this one.
So I put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and for wind.
If you go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind.
We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable cities in America, doing important things in terms of green building, architecture and design.
We can get there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential leadership.
And as president, I intend to sign as my very first order in office the -- an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
Anderson, in our state, we actually expanded family leave.
And I have to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders.
Look, the genius of our nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of the workforce.
My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids.
And, man, that was a juggle when we had little kids and -- and keeping jobs and moving forwards.
We would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave.
I am very, very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished group of candidates tonight.
And what you heard tonight, Anderson, was a very, very -- and all of you watching at home -- was a very, very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two presidential Republican debates.
On this stage -- on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious belief.
What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always taken as Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country, employ more of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at higher and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic, social, and political life of our country.
I truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of American progress.
Unless you've become discouraged about our gridlock in Congress, talk to our young people under 30, because you'll never find among them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples.
That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country.
Anderson, thank you very much.
I think most Americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented crises.
The middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing.
Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one percent.
As a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system is corrupt and is undermining American democracy.
Millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to fund super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the interests of working people.
Today, the scientific community is virtually unanimous: climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable planet for our children and our grandchildren.
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant democracy we know we can and should have.
Thank you.
Well, we're gonna win because first, we're gonna explain what democratic socialism is.
Those are some of the principles that I believe in, and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people.
Well, first of all, let's look at the facts.
The facts that are very simple.
Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout, and that is what happened last November.
Sixty-three percent of the American people didn't vote, Anderson.
Eighty percent of young people didn't vote.
We are bringing out huge turnouts, and creating excitement all over this country.
Democrats at the White House on down will win, when there is excitement and a large voter turnout, and that is what this campaign is doing.
Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and so many have so little by which Wall Street's greed and recklessness wrecked this economy?
No, I don't.
I believe in a society where all people do well.
Not just a handful of billionaires.
I think everybody is in agreement that we are a great entrepreneurial nation.
We have got to encourage that.
Of course, we have to support small and medium-sized businesses.
But you can have all of the growth that you want and it doesn't mean anything if all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent.
So what we need to do is support small and medium-sized businesses, the backbone of our economy, but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake... ... not just for billionaires.
Let's begin, Anderson, by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a D-minus voting rating (ph) from the NRA.
Let's also understand that back in 1988 when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont, a state which has virtually no gun control, that I supported a ban on assault weapons.
And over the years, I have strongly supported instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole.
And I think we've got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchasers.
An earlier version of this transcript misquoted Bernie Sanders as saying, "And over the years, I have strongly avoided instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole."
He actually said that he has "strongly supported" instant background checks.
Also I believe, and I've fought for, to understand that there are thousands of people in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal, but can't get the healthcare that they need, the mental healthcare, because they don't have insurance or they're too poor.
I believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately.
COOPER: Do you want to shield gun companies from lawsuits?
On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and abetting that, of course we should take action.
As a senator from a rural state, what I can tell Secretary Clinton, that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what I would hope all of us want, and that is keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing.
I believe that there is a consensus in this country.
A consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background checks, do away with this gun show loophole, that we have to address the issue of mental health, that we have to deal with the strawman purchasing issue, and that when we develop that consensus, we can finally, finally do something to address this issue.
I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and I think we have to take another look at it.
But here is the point, Governor.
We can raise our voices, but I come from a rural state, and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states, whether we like it or not.
Our job is to bring people together around strong, commonsense gun legislation.
I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do the right thing, and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people together.
Governor... Well, as somebody who has a D-minus voting record...
I don't think I am pandering.
But you have not been in the United States Congress.
And when you want to, check it out.
And if you think -- if you think that we can simply go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing people together, you are sorely mistaken.
...Excuse me...
...I want to make... Well, let's understand that when we talk about Syria, you're talking about a quagmire in a quagmire.
You're talking about groups of people trying to overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS.
You're talking about people who are fighting ISIS using their guns to overthrow Assad, and vice versa.
I'm the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that capacity I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war, and I will do everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in Iraq, the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country.
We should be putting together a coalition of Arab countries who should be leading the effort.
We should be supportive, but I do not support American ground troops in Syria.
Let me just respond to something the secretary said.
First of all, she is talking about, as I understand it, a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a very dangerous situation.
Could lead to real problems.
Second of all, I heard the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why we should overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the -- I would urge people to go to berniesanders.com, hear what I said in 2002.
And I say, without any joy in my heart, that much of what I thought would happen about the destabilization, in fact, did happen.
I think the president is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS, without getting us on the ground there, and that's the direction I believe we should have (inaudible).
Well, obviously, I voted, when President Clinton said, "let's stop ethnic cleansing in Kosovo," I voted for that.
I voted to make sure that Osama bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan.
When our country is threatened, or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country.
I do not support the United States getting involved in unilateral action.
I don't believe that any...
Pardon me?
Well, I think Mr. Putin is going to regret what he is doing.
I think that when he gets into that... Well, I think he's already regretting what he did in Crimea and what he is doing in the Ukraine.
I think he is really regretting the decline of his economy.
And I think what he is trying to do now is save some face.
But I think when Russians get killed in Syria and when he gets bogged down, I think the Russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home, maybe they should start working with the United States to rectify the situation now.
Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend Jim Webb for his service to this country in so many ways.
Jim and I, under Jim's leadership, as he indicated, passed the most significant veterans education bill in recent history.
We followed suit with a few years later passing, under my leadership, the most significant veterans' health care legislation in the modern history of this country.
I am not a pacifist, Anderson.
I supported the war in Afghanistan.
I supported President Clinton's effort to deal with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.
I support air strikes in Syria and what the president is trying to do.
Yes, I happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy.
But yes, I am prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary.
The scientific community is telling us that if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable energy, the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable.
That is a major crisis.
Let me say -- let me say something that may not be great politics.
But I think the secretary is right, and that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails.
And the reason -- the reason those words matter is the African American community knows that on any given day some innocent person like Sandra Bland can get into a car, and then three days later she's going to end up dead in jail, or their kids... ...are going to get shot.
We need to combat institutional racism from top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice system...
...In which we have more people in jail than China.
And, I intended to tackle that issue.
To make sure that our people have education and jobs rather than jail cells.
Well, first of all, let's remember where we were when Bush left office.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
And I know my Republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue, but the world's financial crisis was on -- the world's financial markets system was on the verge of collapse.
That's where we were.
Are we better off today than we were then?
Absolutely.
But the truth is that for the 40 years, the great middle class of this country has been disappearing.
And in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure; raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour; pay equity for women workers; and our disastrous trade policies, which have cost us millions of jobs; and make every public college and university in this country tuition free.
Let us be clear that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of Wall Street, where fraud is a business model, helped to destroy this economy and the lives of millions of people.
Check the record.
In the 1990s -- and all due respect -- in the 1990s, when I had the Republican leadership and Wall Street spending billions of dollars in lobbying, when the Clinton administration, when Alan Greenspan said, "what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge," Bernie Sanders fought them, and helped lead the opposition to deregulation.
Today, it is my view that when you have the three... ...largest banks in America -- are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail, we have got to break them up.
In my view, Secretary Clinton, you do not -- Congress does not regulate Wall Street.
Wall Street regulates Congress.
And we have gotta break off these banks.
Going to them... ...and saying, "please, do the right thing"... ...is kind of naive.
Well, I remember that meeting very well.
I remember it like it was yesterday.
Hank Paulson, Bernanke came in, and they say, "guys, the economy is going to collapse because Wall Street is going under.
It's gonna take the economy with them."
And you know what I said to Hank Paulson?
I said, "Hank, your guys -- you come from Goldman Sachs.
Your millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem.
How about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying for the bailout, not working families in this country?"
So to answer your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse.
But it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street.
And by the way, I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and universities, free with a Wall Street speculation tax.
Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today -- taxes in the future than they're paying today.
But in terms of education, this is what I think.
This is the year 2015.
A college degree today, Dana, is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago.
And what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education regardless of the income of their family.
I think we have to say that is true for everybody going to college.
I think we don't need a complicated system, which the secretary is talking about, the income goes down, the income goes down, if you're poor you have to work, and so forth and so on.
I pay for my program, by the way, through a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will not only make public colleges and universities tuition-free, it will substantially lower interest rates on college debt, a major crisis in this country.
... in order to make it possible for them to afford their education.
And I want colleges to get their costs down.
They are outrageously high in what they're charging.
When the Republicans -- when the Republicans in the Congress and some Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled veterans, for the so-called chained CPI, I founded a caucus called the Defending Social Security Caucus.
I didn't leave anybody at the altar.
I voted against that piece of legislation because it had guest-worker provisions in it which the Southern Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery.
Guest workers are coming in, they're working under terrible conditions, but if they stand up for their rights, they're thrown out of the country.
I was not the only progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason.
Tom Harkin, a very good friend of Hillary Clinton's and mine, one of the leading labor advocates, also voted against that.
I know that.
But point being is that progressives did vote against that for that reason.
My view right now -- and always has been -- is that when you have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive immigration reform, we need a path toward citizenship, we need to take people out of the shadows.
Well, I was chairman for two years, and when I was chairman we did take action.
What we did is pass a $15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many, many new doctors, and nurses into the V.A.
so that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it, and not be on long waiting lines.
And, the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a V.A.
facility, that veteran could get health care from the community health center, or the private sector.
As a result of that legislation, we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country who put their lives on the line to defend them.
It was 99 to one and I was maybe the one.
I don't know.
If we are a free country, we have the right to be free.
Yes, we have to defend ourselves against terrorism, but there are ways to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights.
I think Snowden played a very important role in educating the American people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are being undermined.
He did -- he did break the law, and I think there should be a penalty to that.
But I think what he did in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is (inaudible).
I have a lot of respect for president Obama.
I have worked with him time and time again on many, many issues.
But here's where I do disagree.
I believe that the power of corporate America, the power of Wall Street, the power of the drug companies, the power of the corporate media is so great that the only way we really transform America and do the things that the middle class and working class desperately need is through a political revolution when millions of people begin to come together and stand up and say: Our government is going to work for all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.
What I mean is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest.
We need to raise public consciousness.
We need the American people to know what's going on in Washington in a way that today they do not know.
And when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest, then we could bring the kind of change we need.
I think -- I think that there is profound frustration all over this country with establishment politics.
I am the only candidate running for president who is not a billionaire, who has raised substantial sums of money, and I do not have a super PAC.
I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires, and in fact, tonight, in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties -- 100,000 people in this country -- watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country.
Well, I will tell you this.
I believe -- and Pope Francis made this point.
This is a moral issue.
The scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely boldly.
I am proud that, along with Senator Barbara Boxer, a few years ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called for a tax on carbon....and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively.
This is a moral issue.
We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India, Russia.
The planet -- the future of the planet is at stake.
Yeah, Dana, here's the point: Every other major country on Earth, every one, including some small countries, say that when a mother has a baby, she should stay home with that baby.
We are the only major country.
That is an international embarrassment that we do not provide family -- paid family and medical leave.
Second of all, the secretary is right.
Republicans tell us we can't do anything except give tax breaks to billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
That's not what the American people want.
The Republican party, since I've been in the Senate, and since President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of being total obstructionists.
Every effort that he has made, that some of us have made, they have said no, no, no.
Now, in my view, the only way we can take on the right wing republicans who are, by the way, I hope will not continue to control the Senate and the House when one of us elected President...
...But the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together.
If we want free tuition at public colleges and universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it, and give the Republicans an offer they can't refuse.
If we want to raise the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the Republicans in the eye, and say, "We know what's going on.
You vote against us, you are out of your job."
As someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in Washington, I would lump Wall Street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me.
We should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and -- and parental leave -- family and parental leave to all of our families.
Now, at the end of our day, here is the truth that very few candidates will say, is that nobody up here, certainly no Republican, can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life.
Jim Webb is right: Money is pouring in to this campaign through super PACs.
We are doing it the old-fashioned way: 650,000 individual contributions.
And if people want to help us out, BernieSanders.com.
We are averaging $30 bucks apiece.
We would appreciate your help.
Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the Democratic debates.
I'm Hillary Clinton.
I have been proud and privileged to serve as first lady, as a senator from New York, and as secretary of state.
I'm the granddaughter of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful one-year-old child.
And every day, I think about what we need to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her, but for all of our children.
I have spent a very long time -- my entire adult life -- looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead, and, in particular, to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential.
I've traveled across our country over the last months listening and learning, and I've put forward specific plans about how we're going to create more good-paying jobs: by investing in infrastructure and clean energy, by making it possible once again to invest in science and research, and taking the opportunity posed by climate change to grow our economy.
At the center of my campaign is how we're going to raise wages.
Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the workers who helped to make them.
And then we have to figure out how we're going to make the tax system a fairer one.
Right now, the wealthy pay too little and the middle class pays too much.
So I have specific recommendations about how we're going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have to pay their fair share, and have a series of tax cuts for middle-class families.
And I want to do more to help us balance family and work.
I believe in equal pay for equal work for women, but I also believe it's about time we had paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world.
During the course of the evening tonight, I'll have a chance to lay out all of my plans and the work that I've done behind them.
But for me, this is about bringing our country together again.
And I will do everything I can to heal the divides -- the divides economically, because there's too much inequality; the racial divides; the continuing discrimination against the LGBT community -- so that we work together and, yes, finally, fathers will be able to say to their daughters, you, too, can grow up to be president.
Well, actually, I have been very consistent.
Over the course of my entire life, I have always fought for the same values and principles, but, like most human beings -- including those of us who run for office -- I do absorb new information.
I do look at what's happening in the world.
And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, "this will help raise your wages."
And I concluded I could not.
No.
I think that, like most people that I know, I have a range of views, but they are rooted in my values and my experience.
And I don't take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and progressive commitment.
You know, when I left law school, my first job was with the Children's Defense Fund, and for all the years since, I have been focused on how we're going to un-stack the deck, and how we're gonna make it possible for more people to have the experience I had.
You know, to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person, and now asking the people of America to elect me president....how to find common ground, and I know how to stand my ground, and I have proved that in every position that I've had, even dealing with Republicans who never had a good word to say about me, honestly.
But we found ways to work together on everything from...
...reforming foster care and adoption to the Children's Health Insurance Program, which insures... ...8 million kids.
So I have a long history of getting things done, rooted in the same values...
...I've always had.
Well, let me just follow-up on that, Anderson, because when I think about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families.
And I don't think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is save capitalism from itself.
And I think what Senator Sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have.
But we are not Denmark.
I love Denmark.
We are the United States of America.
And it's our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that it doesn't run amok and doesn't cause the kind of inequities we're seeing in our economic system.
But we would be making a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history... ... of the world.... supports background checks, and even the majority of gun owners do.
Senator Sanders did vote five times against the Brady bill.
Since it was passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented.
He also did vote, as he said, for this immunity provision.
I voted against it.
I was in the Senate at the same time.
It wasn't that complicated to me.
It was pretty straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in America.
Everybody else has to be accountable, but not the gun manufacturers.
And we need to stand up and say: Enough of that.
We're not going to let it continue.
Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians when Medvedev was the president, and not Putin.
We got a nuclear arms deal, we got the Iranian sanctions, we got an ability to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in Afghanistan.
There's no doubt that when Putin came back in and said he was going to be President, that did change the relationship.
We have to stand up to his bullying, and specifically in Syria, it is important -- and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now with the Russians to make it clear that they've got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict.
And, to -- provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are.
And, I think it's important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that it's not acceptable for him to be in Syria creating more chaos, bombing people on behalf of Assad, and we can't do that if we don't take more of a leadership position, which is what I'm advocating.
...Well, nobody does.
Nobody does, Senator Sanders.
Well, I recall very well being on a debate stage, I think, about 25 times with then Senator Obama, debating this very issue.
After the election, he asked me to become Secretary of State....in the Situation Room, going over some very difficult issues.
You know, I -- I agree completely.
We don't want American troops on the ground in Syria.
I never said that.
What I said was we had to put together a coalition -- in fact, something that I worked on before I left the State Department -- to do, and yes, that it should include Arabs, people in the region.
Because what I worry about is what will happen with ISIS gaining more territory, having more reach, and, frankly, posing a threat to our friends and neighbors in the region and far beyond.
So I think while you're talking about the tough decision that President Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden, where I was one of his few advisers, or putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on Iran -- I think I have a lot of evidence... Well, first of all, I... Well, I am in the middle, here, and...Lots of things coming from all directions.
You know, I have to say, I was very pleased when Governor O'Malley endorsed me for president in 2008, and I enjoyed his strong support in that campaign.
And I consider him, obviously, a friend.
Let me say -- because there's a lot of loose talk going on here -- we are already flying in Syria just as we are flying in Iraq.
The president has made a very tough decision.
What I believe and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone -- which of course would be in a coalition -- be put on the table is because I'm trying to figure out what leverage we have to get Russia to the table.
You know, diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution.
It's about how you balance the risks.
And I think we have an opportunity here -- and I know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated -- to get that leverage to try to get the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria.
Well, let's remember what was going on.
We had a murderous dictator, Gadhafi, who had American blood on his hands, as I'm sure you remember, threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people.
We had our closest allies in Europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw as a mass genocide, in their words.
And we had the Arabs standing by our side saying, "We want you to help us deal with Gadhafi."
Our response, which I think was smart power at its best, is that the United States will not lead this.
We will provide essential, unique capabilities that we have, but the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line.
We did not put one single American soldier on the ground in Libya.
And I'll say this for the Libyan people...
But let -- I'll get to that.
But I think it's important, since I understand Senator Webb's very strong feelings about this, to explain where we were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision at the time.
And the Libyan people had a free election the first time since 1951.
And you know what, they voted for moderates, they voted with the hope of democracy.
Because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things, there was turmoil to be followed.
But unless you believe the United States should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send them forth, there is always the potential for danger and risk.
I -- I think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear weapons, nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands.
I know the terrorists are constantly seeking it, and that's why we have to stay vigilant, but also united around the world to prevent that.
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my e-mails, asking that they be made public.
And you're right.
I am going to be testifying.
I've been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public, which was not originally agreed to.
But let's just take a minute here and point out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National Committee.
It is a partisan vehicle, as admitted by the House Republican majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers.
Big surprise.
And that's what they have attempted to do.
I am still standing.
I am happy to be part of this debate.
And I intend to keep talking about the issues that matter to the American people.
You know, I believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about, like how are we going to make college affordable?
How are we going to pay down student debt?
How are we going to get health care for everybody... Well, I never said it wasn't legitimate.
I said that I have answered all the questions and I will certainly be doing so again before this committee.
But I think it would be really unfair not to look at the entire picture.
This committee has spent $4.5 million of taxpayer money, and they said that they were trying to figure out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that something like Benghazi wouldn't happen again.
There were already seven committee reports about what to do.
So I think it's pretty clear what their obvious goal is.
But I'll be there.
I'll answer their questions.
But tonight, I want to talk not about my e-mails, but about what the American people want from the next president of the United States.
Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on these issues, and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the Republicans at every turn, so...
...So, what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice -- I have talked about that at some length, including things like body cameras, but we also need to be following the recommendations of the commissioner that President Obama empanelled on policing.
There is an agenda there that we need to be following up on.
Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration, and this may be the only bi-partisan issue in the congress this year.
We actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion, that we can not keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world.
But, I believe that the debate, and the discussion has to go further, Anderson, because we've got to do more about the lives of these children.
That's why I started off by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential.
That is... ...really hard to do if you don't have early childhood education... ...if you don't have schools that are able to meet the needs of the people, or good housing, there's a long list... ...We need a new New Deal for communities of color... Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed.
Neither of us came from wealthy families and we've worked really hard our entire lives.
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had, to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs.
Well, my plan is more comprehensive.
And frankly, it's tougher because of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail.
We can never let the American taxpayer and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw.
But we also have to worry about some of the other players -- AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman Brothers, an investment bank.
There's this whole area called "shadow banking."
That's where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from.
So I'm with both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks.
And the plan that I have put forward would actually empower regulators to break up big banks if we thought they posed a risk.
But I want to make sure we're going to cover everybody, not what caused the problem last time, but what could cause it next time.
You know, I -- I respect the passion an intensity.
I represented Wall Street, as a senator from New York, and I went to Wall Street in December of 2007 -- before the big crash that we had -- and I basically said, "cut it out!
Quit foreclosing on homes!
Quit engaging in these kinds of speculative behaviors."
I took on the Bush administration for the same thing.
So I have thought deeply and long about what we're gonna do to do exactly what I think both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk.
And my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail.
Nobody went to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid... ...and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks.
But I'm telling you -- I will say it tonight.
If only you look at the big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees.
So... ...no, that's not what... ...that -- I think Dodd-Frank was a very... ...good start, and I think that we have to implement it.
We have to prevent the Republicans from ripping it apart.
We have to save the Consumer Financial Protection board, which is finally beginning to act to protect consumers.
We have work to do.
You've got no argument from me.
But I know, if we don't come in with a very tough and comprehensive approach, like the plan I'm recommending, we're gonna be behind instead of ahead... ...on what the next crisis could be.
Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two.
We've been around a cumulative quite some period of time.
But I have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed (ph) a meeting with the Chinese and got them to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that they'd ever joined.
So I'm... ...not taking a back seat to anybody on my values... ...my principles and the results that I get.
Well, let me address college affordability, because I have a plan that I think will really zero in on what the problems are.
First, all the 40 million Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate.
That will save thousands of dollars for people who are now struggling under this cumbersome, burdensome college debt.
As a young student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it.
So then we have to make it more affordable.
How do we make it more affordable?
My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free.
You would not have to borrow money for tuition.
But I do believe -- and maybe it's because I worked when I went through college; I worked when I went through law school -- I think it's important for everybody to have some part of getting this accomplished.
That's why I call it a compact.
But, yes, I would like students to work 10 hours a week... Well, I fully support Social Security.
And the most important fight we're going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to privatize it.
I want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social Security.
We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and single women who didn't make a lot of money during their careers, and they are impoverished, and they need more help from the Social Security system.
And I will focus -- I will focus on helping those people who need it the most.
And of course I'm going to defend Social Security.
I'm going to look for ways to try to make sure it's solvent into the future.
And we also need to talk about health care at some time, because we agree on the goals, we just disagree on the means.
Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care.
That's why I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, and I want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented children and others.
I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able to buy in to the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act.
I think to go beyond that, as I understand what Governor O'Malley has recommended, so that they would get the same subsidies.
I think that is -- it raises so many issues.
It would be very difficult to administer, it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform, when we finally do get to it.
I want to follow up because I think underneath Juan Carlos' important questions, there is such a difference between everything you're hearing here on this stage, and what we hear from the Republicans.
Demonize hard-working immigrants who have insulted them.
You know, I came to Las Vegas in, I think, May.
Early may.
Met with a group of DREAMers, I wish everybody in America could meet with this young people, to hear their stories, to know their incredible talent, their determination, and that's why I would go further... ...than even the executive orders that President Obama has signed when I'm president.
My plan would support any state that takes that position, and would work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing.
If their states agree, then we want more states to do the same thing.
No, I don't.
I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed.
And it is true that it did require that there be a process.
What happened, however, is that the Bush administration began to chip away at that process.
And I began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in.
We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and security.
It's not easy in a democracy, but we have to keep it in mind.
Well, I think that's pretty obvious.
I think being the first woman president would be quite a change from the presidents we've had up until this point, including President Obama.
Well, there's a lot that I would like to do to build on the successes of President Obama, but also, as I'm laying out, to go beyond.
And that's in my economic plans, how I would deal with the prescription drug companies, how I would deal with college, how I would deal with a full range of issues that I've been talking about throughout this campaign to go further.
You know, it does take me a little longer.
That's all I can say.
Well, I can't think of anything more of an outsider than electing the first woman president, but I'm not just running because I would be the first woman president.
I'm running because I have a lifetime of experience in getting results and fighting for people, fighting for kids, for women, for families, fighting to even the odds.
And I know what it takes to get things done.
I know how to find common ground and I know how to stand my ground.
And I think we're going to need both of those in Washington to get anything that we're talking about up here accomplished.
So I'm very happy that I have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a lifetime to bring together to offer the American people.
Well, I would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name.
I would ask them to listen to what I'm proposing, look at what I've accomplished in the Senate, as secretary of of state, and then draw your own conclusion.
I certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name is Clinton.
I'm campaigning because I think I have the right combination of what the country needs, at this point, and I think I can take the fight to the Republicans, because we cannot afford a Republican to succeed Barack Obama as president of the United States.
Well, that -- that's exactly what I've been doing.
When we met in Copenhagen in 2009 and, literally, President Obama and I were hunting for the Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center, because we knew we had to get them to agree to something.
Because there will be no effective efforts against climate change unless China and India join with the rest of the world.
They told us they'd left for the airport; we found out they were having a secret meeting.
We marched up, we broke in, we said, "We've been looking all over for you.
Let's sit down and talk about what we need to do."
And we did come up with the first international agreement that China has signed.
Thanks to President Obama's leadership, it's now gone much further.
And I do think that the bilateral agreement that President Obama made with the Chinese was significant.
Now, it needs to go further, and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered there.
Well, I'm surprised she says that, because California has had a paid leave program for a number of years.
And it's... Well, but all -- well, on a state level, a state as big as many countries in the world.
And it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans are always saying it will have.
And I think this is -- this is typical Republican scare tactics.
We can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses.
I remember as a young mother, you know, having a baby wake up who was sick and I'm supposed to be in court, because I was practicing law.
I know what it's like.
And I think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face, particularly working moms.
I see my good friend, Senator Gillibrand, in the front row.
She's been a champion of this.
We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I'm talking about it everywhere I go, and we need to join the rest of the advanced world in having it.
Well, look, you know, when people say that -- it's always the Republicans or their sympathizers who say, "You can't have paid leave, you can't provide health care."
They don't mind having big government to interfere with a woman's right to choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood.
They're fine with big government when it comes to that.
I'm sick of it.
You know, we can do these things.
We should not be paralyzed -- we should not be paralyzed by the Republicans and their constant refrain, "big government this, big government that," that except for what they want to impose on the American people.
I know we can afford it, because we're going to make the wealthy pay for it.
That is the way to get it done.
No.
I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today.
I do support the use of medical marijuana, and I think even there we need to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how we're going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides relief.
So, I think we're just at the beginning, but I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who use marijuana.
Therefore, we need more states, cities, and the federal government to begin to address this so that we don't have this terrible result that Senator Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our prisons for nonviolent, low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana.
Well, in addition to the NRA, the health insurance companies, the drug companies, the Iranians.
Thank you very much, Anderson.
And thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight.
I think what you did see is that, in this debate, we tried to deal with some of the very tough issues facing our country.
That's in stark contrast to the Republicans who are currently running for president.
What you have to ask yourself is: Who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that are going to improve the lives of the American people?
Who has the tenacity and the ability and the proven track record of getting that done?
Now, I revere my late mother, and she gave me a lot of good advice.
But one of the best pieces of advice she gave me was, you know, the issue is not whether or not you get knocked down.
It's whether you get back up.
America's been knocked down.
That Great Recession, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, $13 trillion in wealth disappeared.
And although we've made progress, we're standing but not running the way America needs to.
My mission as president will be to raise incomes for hard-working middle-class families and to make sure that we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with: If you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
Please join me in this campaign.
Please come and make it clear that America's best days are still ahead.
Thank you very much.
Wow.
Whoa.
That is some group of people.
Thousands.
So nice, thank you very much.
That's really nice.
Thank you.
It's great to be at Trump Tower.
It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York.
And it's an honor to have everybody here.
This is beyond anybody's expectations.
There's been no crowd like this.
And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in.
They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work.
They sweated like dogs.
They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there.
How are they going to beat ISIS?
I don't think it's gonna happen.
Our country is in serious trouble.
We don't have victories anymore.
We used to have victories, but we don't have them.
When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal?
They kill us.
I beat China all the time.
All the time.
When do we beat Mexico at the border?
They're laughing at us, at our stupidity.
And now they are beating us economically.
They are not our friend, believe me.
But they're killing us economically.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.
But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting.
And it only makes common sense.
It only makes common sense.
They're sending us not the right people.
It's coming from more than Mexico.
It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably -- probably -- from the Middle East.
But we don't know.
Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening.
And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has.
And in 19 -- and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said -- and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever.
But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East.
Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq.
Think of it.
Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league.
And we have nothing.
We can't even go there.
We have nothing.
And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978.
But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old.
They don't know if it worked.
And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue.
They don't know what they're doing.
They don't know what they're doing."
I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place.
I hire people, they do a Web site.
It costs me $3.
$5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action.
Nothing's gonna get done.
They will not bring us -- believe me -- to the promised land.
They will not.
As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans.
And they're wonderful people.
I like them.
They all want me to support them.
They don't know how to bring it about.
They come up to my office.
I'm meeting with three of them in the next week.
And they don't know -- "Are you running?
Are you not running?
Could we have your support?
What do we do?
How do we do it?"
I like them.
And I hear their speeches.
And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China.
When was the last time you heard China is killing us?
They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe.
It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible.
They're killing us.
But you don't hear that from anybody else.
You don't hear it from anybody else.
And I watch the speeches.
I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen.
And people are saying, "What's going on?
I just want a job.
Just get me a job.
I don't need the rhetoric.
I want a job."
And that's what's happening.
And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in '16, 2016.
Obama is going to be out playing golf.
He might be on one of my courses.
I would invite him, I actually would say.
I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to -- I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac.
If he'd like to play, that's fine.
In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016.
Really big league.
It is going to be amazingly destructive.
Doctors are quitting.
I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it.
I have more accountants than I have nurses.
It's a disaster.
My patients are beside themselves.
They had a plan that was good.
They have no plan now."
We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be -- and -- and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody.
Let it be for everybody.
But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government.
And we can do it.
So I've watched the politicians.
I've dealt with them all my life.
If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you.
You're certainly not very good.
And that's what we have= representing us.
They will never make America great again.
They don't even have a chance.
They're controlled fully -- they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.
Yes, they control them.
Hey, I have lobbyists.
I have to tell you.
I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me.
They're great.
But you know what?
it won't happen.
It won't happen.
Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country.
We have to stop, and it has to stop now.
Now, our country needs -- our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now.
We need a leader that wrote "The Art of the Deal."
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets.
Our vets have been abandoned.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well.
I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country.
I think he'd be a great spirit."
He was vibrant.
He was young.
I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
He's not a leader.
That's true.
You're right about that.
But he wasn't a cheerleader.
He's actually a negative force.
He's been a negative force.
He wasn't a cheerleader; he was the opposite.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again.
It's not great again.
We need -- we need somebody -- we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again.
We can do that.
And, I will tell you, I love my life.
I have a wonderful family.
They're saying, "Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough."
You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office.
Just can't happen.
And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
So ladies and gentlemen...I am officially running...... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
It can happen.
Our country has tremendous potential.
We have tremendous people.
We have people that aren't working.
We have people that have no incentive to work.
But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job.
And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be -- they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving.
It can happen.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created.
I tell you that.
I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places.
I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money.
How stupid are our leaders?
How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen?
How stupid are they?
I'm going to tell you -- thank you.
I'm going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I'm totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.
Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue.
Our president doesn't have a clue.
He's a bad negotiator.
He's the one that did Bergdahl.
We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.
Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran.
He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long.
It's a disaster, and we have to protect Israel.
But...
So we need people -- I'm a free trader.
But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you.
If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid.
We have people that aren't smart.
And we have people that are controlled by special interests.
And it's just not going to work.
So, here's a couple of stories happened recently.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer.
And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it.
I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything -- everything, they got away with it again.
And it's impossible for our people here to compete.
So I want to tell you this story.
A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago.
He's very upset.
I said, "What's your problem?"
He said, "You know, I make great product."
And I said, "I know.
I know that because I buy the product."
He said, "I can't get it into China.
They won't accept it.
I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back.
They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."
I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible.
Does anyone know this?"
He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."
"Yeah.
So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff.
They're not supposed to be doing that.
I told them."
Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.
Ask Boeing.
They wanted Boeing's secrets.
They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.
Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid.
I like China.
I sell apartments for -- I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China.
Am I supposed to dislike them?
I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war.
Very valuable.
I love China.
The biggest bank in the world is from China.
You know where their United States headquarters is located?
In this building, in Trump Tower.
I love China.
People say, "Oh, you don't like China?"
No, I love them.
But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that.
There's too much -- it's like -- it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team.
That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders.
They are ripping us.
We are rebuilding China.
We're rebuilding many countries.
China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it.
They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes.
And they're all over the place.
We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them.
We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game.
We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.
Now they're going militarily.
They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea.
A military island.
Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country -- we would never build in an ocean.
They built it in about one year, this massive military port.
They're building up their military to a point that is very scary.
You have a problem with ISIS.
You have a bigger problem with China.
And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.
So this man tells me about the manufacturing.
I say, "That's a terrible story.
I hate to hear it."
So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out.
Everybody thought the deal was dead.
Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently.
Everybody thought it was a done deal.
It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee.
Great state, great people.
All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee.
They're gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead.
Not good.
Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico.
$2.5 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world.
Ford.
Good company.... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in -- and I wouldn't even use -- you know, I have -- I know the smartest negotiators in the world.
I know the good ones.
I know the bad ones.
I know the overrated ones.
You get a lot of them that are overrated.
They're not good.
They think they are.
They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph).
But they're not good.
But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country.
Believe me, folks.
We will do very, very well, very, very well.
But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one.
I would call up the head of Ford, who I know.
If I was president, I'd say, "Congratulations.
I understand that you're building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."
And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right?
"How does that help us?
Where is that good"?
It's not.
Now, here's what is going to happen.
If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're (inaudible).
And here's what's going to happen.
They're not so stupid.
They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it.
But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford."
And guess what?
No problem.
They're going to build in Mexico.
They're going to take away thousands of jobs.
It's very bad for us.
So under President Trump, here's what would happen:
The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news.
But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day.
You know, they want to be a little cool.
And he'll say, "Please, please, please."
He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, "No interest."
Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, "Sorry, fellas.
No interest," because I don't need anybody's money.
It's nice.
I don't need anybody's money.
I'm using my own money.
I'm not using the lobbyists.
I'm not using donors.
I don't care.
I'm really rich.
I (inaudible).
And by the way, I'm not even saying that in a -- that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So -- because we got to make the country rich.
It sounds crass.
Somebody said, "Oh, that's crass."
It's not crass.
We got $18 trillion in debt.
We got nothing but problems.
We got a military that needs equipment all over the place.
We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.
We've got nothing.
We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country.
All these other people want to cut the hell out of it.
I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it.
But here's what's going to happen:
After I'm called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I'm called by all of the special interests and by the -- the donors and by the lobbyists -- and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero -- I'll get a call the next day from the head of Ford.
He'll say.
"Please reconsider," I'll say no.
He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico."
That's it.
They have no choice.
They have no choice.
There are hundreds of things like that.
I'll give you another example.
Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day.
$1 billion a day.
I love the Saudis.
Many are in this building.
They make a billion dollars a day.
Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships.
We say "we're gonna protect."
What are we doing?
They've got nothing but money.
If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune.
They wouldn't be there except for us.
And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen.
You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory.
Two weeks later, the place was blown up.
Everybody got out -- and they kept our equipment.
They always keep our equipment.
We ought to send used equipment, right?
They always keep our equipment.
We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be -- we ought to send our surplus.
We're always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.
But look at that border with Saudi Arabia.
Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen?
Saudi Arabia without us is gone.
They;re gone.
And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq.
You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now -- it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run.
I'm running.
But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate.
I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq.
He couldn't answer the question.
He didn't know.
I said, "Is he intelligent?"
Then I looked at Rubio.
He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing?
He didn't know.
He couldn't answer the question.
How are these people gonna lead us?
How are we gonna -- how are we gonna go back and make it great again?
We can't.
They don't have a clue.
They can't lead us.
They can't.
They can't even answer simple questions.
It was terrible.
But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble.
Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place.
And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders.
They were smarter than our leaders.
There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again.
Because we need money.
We're dying.
We're dying.
We need money.
We have to do it.
And we need the right people.
So Ford will come back.
They'll all come back.
And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence.
Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person."
That's true.
But actually I am.
I think I am a nice person.
People that know me, like me.
Does my family like me?
I think so, right.
Look at my family.
I'm proud of my family.
By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job.
Did she do a great job?
Great.
Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family.
They're a great family.
So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person.
How can you get people to vote for you?"
I said, "I don't know."
I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person.
I give a lot of money away to charities and other things.
I think I'm actually a very nice person."
They're right about that, but I'm doing it.
Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth.
And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.
So I said, "That's OK." I'm proud of my net worth.
I've done an amazing job.
I started off -- thank you -- I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said -- and I love my father.
I learned so much.
He was a great negotiator.
I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors.
But I learned a lot.
But he used to say, "Donald, don't go into Manhattan.
That's the big leagues.
We don't know anything about that.
Don't do it."
I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan.
I gotta build those big buildings.
I gotta do it, Dad.
I've gotta do it."
And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals -- the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
I was responsible for the convention center on the west side.
I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young.
And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.
But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks."
So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success.
I really am.
I've employed -- I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime.
That means medical.
That means education.
That means everything.
So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary.
But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't extensions or anything.
We'll be filing it right on time.
We don't need anything.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion."
So I said (ph), "No, that's the wrong number.
That's the wrong number.
Not assets."
So they put together this.
And before I say it, I have to say this.
I made it the old-fashioned way.
It's real estate.
You know, it's real estate.
It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world.
In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don't have enough borrowings.
Could we loan you $4 billion"?
I said, "I don't need it.
I don't want it.
And I've been there.
I don't want it."
But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted.
So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it'll be well-over $10 billion.
But here, a total net worth of -- net worth, not assets, not -- a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets -- Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York -- many other places all over the world.
So the total is $8,737,540,00.
Now I'm not doing that...I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what?
I don't have to brag.
I don't have to, believe it or not.
I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs.
We need that thinking.
We have the opposite thinking.
We have losers.
We have losers.
We have people that don't have it.
We have people that are morally corrupt.
We have people that are selling this country down the drain.
So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years -- you know, we're at $8 trillion now.
We're soon going to be at $20 trillion.
According to the economists -- who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying -- that $24 trillion -- we're very close -- that's the point of no return.
$24 trillion.
We will be there soon.
That's when we become Greece.
That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable.
And we're gonna be there very soon.
We're gonna be there very soon.
So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly.
I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.
Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump.
Nobody.
I will find -- within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy.
I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work.
Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.
I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.
And we won't be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who's making a horrible and laughable deal, who's just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg.
I won't be doing that.
And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race.
That I can tell you.
I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.
Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.
Now, it's very interesting.
Today I heard it.
Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are.
And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns.
I didn't want guns.
And now since this happened" -- it's up in the prison area -- "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns.
We now have a gun on every table.
We're ready to start shooting."
End -- end Common Core.
Common Core should -- it is a disaster.
Bush is totally in favor of Common Core.
I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination.
He's weak on immigration.
He's in favor of Common Core.
How the hell can you vote for this guy?
You just can't do it.
We have to end -- education has to be local.
Nobody can do that like me.
Believe me.
It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.
I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third.
What they do is unbelievable, how bad.
You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels.
It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington.
The Obama administration.
We got it.
It was the most highly sought after -- or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services.
We got it.
People were shocked, Trump got it.
Well, I got it for two reasons.
Number one, we're really good.
Number two, we had a really good plan.
And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement.
Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job.
And they wanted to make sure it got built.
So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports.
You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country.
You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor.
They throw down asphalt, and they throw.
You look at these airports, we are like a third world country.
And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world.
You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster.
You have all of these disastrous airports.
We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts.
Have to do it.
Get rid of the fraud.
Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it.
People have been paying it for years.
And now many of these candidates want to cut it.
You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble.
We have artificially low interest rates.
We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening.
We have a stock market that is so bloated.
Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens.
So be very, very careful.
And strengthen our military and take care of our vets.
So, so important.
But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.
END.ETXJun 16, 2015 12:50 ET .EOF
I cannot say.
I have to respect the person that, if its not me, the person that wins, if I do win, and Im leading by quite a bit, thats what I want to do.
I can totally make that pledge.
If Im the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent.
But  and I am discussing it with everybody, but Im, you know, talking about a lot of leverage.
We want to win, and we will win.
But I want to win as the Republican.
I want to run as the Republican nominee.
Well, Ive given him plenty of money.
I will not make the pledge at this time.
I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct.
Ive been challenged by so many people, and I dont frankly have time for total political correctness.
And to be honest with you, this country doesnt have time either.
This country is in big trouble.
We dont win anymore.
We lose to China.
We lose to Mexico both in trade and at the border.
We lose to everybody.
And frankly, what I say, and oftentimes its fun, its kidding.
We have a good time.
What I say is what I say.
And honestly Megyn, if you dont like it, Im sorry.
Ive been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be, based on the way you have treated me.
But I wouldnt do that.
But you know what, we  we need strength, we need energy, we need quickness and we need brain in this country to turn it around.
That, I can tell you right now.
So, if it werent for me, you wouldnt even be talking about illegal immigration, Chris.
You wouldnt even be talking about it.
The fact is, since then, many killings,murders, crime, drugs pouring across the border, are money going out and the drugs coming in.
And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly.
And I dont mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally.
But we need, Jeb, to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out.
Border Patrol, I was at the border last week.
Border Patrol, people that I deal with, that I talk to, they say this is whats happening.
Because our leaders are stupid.
Our politicians are stupid.
Why should they when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for them?
And thats what is happening whether you like it or not.
First of all, Id like to just go back to one.
In July of 2004, I came out strongly against the war with Iraq, because it was going to destabilize the Middle East.
And Im the only one on this stage that knew that and had the vision to say it.
And thats exactly what happened.
And the Middle East became totally destabilized.
So I just want to say.
As far as single payer, it works in Canada.
It works incredibly well in Scotland.
It could have worked in a different age, which is the age youre talking about here.
What Id like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state.
I have a big company with thousands and thousands of employees.
And if Im negotiating in New York or in New Jersey or in California, I have like one bidder.
Nobody can bid.
Because the insurance companies are making a fortune because they have control of the politicians, of course, with the exception of the politicians on this stage.
But they have total control of the politicians.
Theyre making a fortune.
Get rid of the artificial lines and you will have
yourself great plans.
And then we have to take care of the people that cant take care of themselves.
And I will do that through a different system.
Im not  Im not are  I dont think you heard me.
Youre having a hard time tonight.
If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage Ive given to, just so you understand, a lot of money.
Sounds good.
Sounds good to me, Governor.
I will tell you that our system is broken.
I gave to many people, before this, before two months ago, I was a businessman.
I give to everybody.
When they call, I give.
When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me.
Well, Ill tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding.
She didnt have a choice because I gave.
I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good.
I didnt know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world.
It was.
Because I have used the laws of this country just like the greatest people that you read about every day in business have used the laws of this country, the chapter laws, to do a great job for my company, for myself, for my employees, for my family, et cetera.
I have never gone bankrupt, by the way.
I have never.
Excuse me, what am I saying?
Out of hundreds of deals that Ive done, hundreds, on four occasions Ive taken advantage of the laws of this country, like other people.
Im not going to name their names because Im not going to embarrass, but virtually every person that you read about on the front page of the business sections, theyve used the law.
Again Chris, hundreds and hundreds of deals.
Four times, Ive taken advantage of the laws.
And frankly, so has everybody else in my position.
Let me just tell you about the lenders.
First of all, these lenders arent babies.
These are total killers.
These are not the nice, sweet little people that you think, OK?
You know, I mean youre living in a world of the make-believe, Chris, you want to know the truth.
And I had the good sense to leave Atlantic City, which by the way, Caesars just went bankrupt.
Every company, Chris can tell you, every company virtually in Atlantic City went bankrupt.
And let me just tell you.
I had the good sense, and Ive gotten a lot of credit in the financial pages, seven years ago I left Atlantic City before it totally cratered, and I made a lot of money in Atlantic City, and Im very proud of it.
I want to tell you that.
Very, very proud of it.
And by the way, this country right now owes $19 trillion.
And they need somebody like me to straighten out that mess.
I dont think they like me very much.
Ill tell you what.
Ive evolved on many issues over the years.
And you know who else has?
Is Ronald Reagan evolved on many issues.
And I am pro-life.
And if you look at the question, I was in business.
They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice.
And I said if you let it run, that I hate the concept of abortion.
I hate the concept of abortion.
And then since then, Ive very much evolved.
And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted.
And it wasnt aborted.
And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child.
And I saw that.
And I saw other instances.
And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life.
As far as being a Republican is concerned, I come from a place, New York City, which is virtually, I mean, it is almost exclusively Democrat.
And I have really started to see some of the negatives  as an example, and I have a lot of liking for this man, but the last number of months of his brothers administration were a catastrophe.
And unfortunately, those few months gave us President Obama.
And you cant be happy about that.
First of all, Jeb, I am very happy that you denied that, and I appreciate that very much.
He is a true gentleman.
He really is.
One thing he did say, and I mean that.
The one thing he did say about me, however, was my tone.
And I also understand that.
But when you have people that are cutting Christians heads off, when you have a world that the border and at so many places, that it is medieval times, weve never  it almost has to be as bad as it ever was in terms of the violence and the horror, we dont have time for tone.
We have to go out and get the job done.
I would be so different from what you have right now.
Like, the polar opposite.
We have a president who doesnt have a clue.
I would say hes incompetent, but I dont want to do that because thats not nice.
But if you look at the deals we make, whether its the nuclear deal with 24 hour periods  and by the way, before you get to the 24 hours, you have to go through a system.
You look at Sergeant Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, a traitor, and they get five of the big, great killers leaders that they want.
We have people in Washington that dont know what theyre doing.
Now
Now, with Iran, were making a deal, you would say, we want him.
We want out our prisoners.
We want all these things, and we dont get anything.
Were giving them $150 billion dollars plus, they are going to be  Ill tell you what, if Iran was a stock, you folks should go out and buy it right now because youll quadruple  this, whats happening in Iran, is a disgrace, and its going to lead to destruction in large portions of the world.
Our country is in serious trouble.
We dont win anymore.
We dont beat China in trade.
We dont beat Japan, with their millions and millions of cars coming into this country, in trade.
We cant beat Mexico, at the border or in trade.
We cant do anything right.
Our military has to be strengthened.
Our vets have to be taken care of.
We have to end Obamacare, and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that.
I mean, this is whats wrong.
He buys and sells politicians of all stripes, hes already
Hey, look, look!
Hes already hedging his bet on the Clintons, OK?
So if he doesnt run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent
but Id say that hes already hedging his bets because hes used to buying politicians.
First of all, only ISIS is responsible for the terrorism.
Only ISIS is responsible for the depravity.
But, we do have to examine, how are we going to defeat ISIS?
Ive got a proposal.
Im the leading voice in America for not arming the allies of ISIS.
Ive been fighting amidst a lot of opposition from both Hillary Clinton, as well as some Republicans who wanted to send arms to the allies of ISIS.
ISIS rides around in a billion dollars worth of U.S. Humvees.
Its a disgrace.
Weve got to stop  we shouldnt fund our enemies, for goodness sakes.
So, we didnt create ISIS  ISIS created themselves, but we will stop them, and one of the ways we stop them is by not funding them, and not arming them.
Get a judge to sign the warrant!
Heres the problem, governor.
Heres the problem, governor.
You fundamentally misunderstand the Bill of Rights.
Every time you did a case, you got a warrant from a judge.
Im talking about searches without warrants
indiscriminately, of all Americans records, and thats what I fought to end.
I dont trust President Obama with our records.
I know you gave him a big hug, and if you want to give him a big hug again, go right ahead.
News flash, the Republican Partys been fighting against a single-payer system
for a decade.
So I think youre on the wrong side of this if youre still arguing for a single-payer system.
I oppose the Iranian deal, and will vote against it.
I dont think that the president negotiated from a position of strength, but I dont immediately discount negotiations.
Im a Reagan conservative.
Reagan did negotiate with the Soviets.
But you have to negotiate from a position of strength, and I think President Obama gave away too much, too early.
If theres going to be a negotiation, youre going to have to believe somehow that the Iranians are going to comply.
I asked this question to John Kerry, I said do you believe theyre trustworthy?
and he said No.
And I said, well, how are we gonna get them to comply?
I would have never released the sanctions before there was consistent evidence of compliance.
Look, I dont want my marriage or my guns registered in Washington.
And if people have an opinion, its a religious opinion that is heartly felt, obviously they should be allowed to practice that and no government should interfere with them.
One of the things, one of the things that really got to me was the thing in Houston where you had the government, the mayor actually, trying to get the sermons of ministers.
When the government tries to invade the church to enforce its own opinion on marriage, thats when its time to resist.
Well, lets be clear, Im the only one on the stage who actually has a five-year budget that balances.
Ive put pencil to paper
and Ive said  and Ive said I would cut spending, and Ive said exactly where.
Each one of my budgets has taken a meat axe to foreign aid, because I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that hate us.
I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that burn our flag.
Israel is not one of those.
But even Benjamin Netanyahu said that ultimately, they will be stronger when theyre independent.
My position is exactly the same.
We shouldnt borrow money from China to send it anywhere, but why dont we start with eliminating aid to our enemies.
I still say exactly what my original opinion is.
Do you borrow money from China to send it to anyone?
Out of your surplus, you can help your allies, and Israel is a great ally.
And this is no particular animus of Israel, but what I will say, and I will say over and over again, we cannot give away money we dont have.
We do not project power from bankruptcy court.
Were borrowing a million dollars a minute.
Im a different kind of Republican.
Ive introduced a five-year balanced budget.
Ive introduced the largest tax cut in our history.
I stood for ten and a half hours on the Senate floor to defend your right to be left alone.
But Ive also gone to Chicago.
Ive gone to Detroit.
Ive been to Ferguson, Ive been to Baltimore, because I want our party to be bigger, better and bolder, and Im the only one that leads Hillary Clinton in five states that were won by President Obama.
Im a different kind of Republican.
Well, I could take issue with  with all of those things, but we dont have time.
But I will say, we have a debate here tonight, and we will have an opportunity to explore those areas, and Im looking very much forward to demonstrating that, in fact, the thing that is probably most important is having a brain, and to be able to figure things out and learn things very rapidly.
So, you know, experience comes from a large number of different arenas, and America became a great nation early on not because it was flooded with politicians, but because it was flooded with people who understood the value of personal responsibility, hard work, creativity, innovation, and thats what will get us on the right track now, as well.
Well, thank you, Megyn, I wasnt sure I was going to get to talk again.
Alright.
You know, what we do in order to get the information that we need is our business, and I wouldnt necessarily be broadcasting what were going to do.
Weve gotten into this  this mindset of fighting politically correct wars.
There is no such thing as a politically correct war.
The left, of course, will say Carson doesnt believe in the Geneva Convention, Carson doesnt believe in fighting stupid wars.
And  and what we have to remember is we want to utilize the tremendous intellect that we have in the military to win wars.
And Ive talked to a lot of the generals, a lot of our advanced people.
And believe me, if we gave them the mission, which is what the commander-in-chief does, they would be able to carry it out.
And if we dont tie their hands behind their back, they will do it
What I agree with is that we need a significantly changed taxation system.
And the one that Ive advocated is based on tithing, because I think God is a pretty fair guy.
And he said, you know, if you give me a tithe, it doesnt matter how much you make.
If youve had a bumper crop, you dont owe me triple tithes.
And if youve had no crops at all, you dont owe me no tithes.
So there must be something inherently fair about that.
And thats why Ive advocated a proportional tax system.
You make $10 billion, you pay a billion.
You make $10, you pay one.
And everybody gets treated the same way.
And you get rid of the deductions, you get rid of all the loopholes, and
And I have a lot more to say about it.
If Hillary is the candidate, which I doubt, that would be a dream come true.
But you know, the fact of the matter is, she is the epitome of the progressive  the secular progressive movement.
And she counts on the fact that people are uninformed, the Alinsky Model, taking advantage of useful idiots.
Well, I just happen to believe that people are not stupid.
(APPLAUSE) And the way I will come at it is to educate people, help people to actually understand that it is that progressive movement that is causing them the problems.
You know, you look at the  the national debt and how its being driven up.
If I was trying to destroy this country, what I would do is find a way to drive wedges between all the people, drive the debt to an unsustainable level, and then step off the stage as a world leader and let our enemies increase while we decreased our capacity as a military person.
And thats what shes doing.
You know, we turned our back on Israel, our ally.
You know, and a situation like that, of course Obamas not going to be able to do anything.
I would shore up our military first, because if you dont get the military right, nothing else is going to work.
Well, I think the bully pulpit is a wonderful place to start healing that divide.
You know, we have the purveyors of hatred who take every single incident between people of two races and try to make a race war out of it, and drive wedges into people.
And this does not need to be done.
What we need to think about instead  you know, I was asked by an NPR reporter once, why dont I talk about race that often.
I said its because Im a neurosurgeon.
And she thought that was a strange response.
And you say  I said, you see, when I take someone to the operating room, Im actually operating on the thing that makes them who they are.
The skin doesnt make them who they are.
The hair doesnt make them who they are.
And its time for us to move beyond that.
our strength as a nation comes in our unity.
We are the United States of America, not the divided states.
And those who want to divide us are trying to divide us, and we shouldnt let them do it.
Well, I havent said anything about me being the only one to do anything, so let me try that.
Im the only one to separate siamese twins
The  the only one to operate on babies while they were still in mothers womb, the only one to take out half of a brain, although you would think, if you go to Washington, that someone had beat me to it.
But I  but Im very hopeful that Im not the only onel whos willing to pick up the baton of freedom, because freedom is not free, and we must fight for it every day.
Every one of us must fight for it, because were fighting for our children and the next generation.
Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and its great to be here tonight.
Let me begin by saying this: Im not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate.
Heres what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past.
It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.
This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed.
You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesnt even own a single store?
And these changes have been disruptive.
They have changed peoples lives.
The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they either dont pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands that as our nominee.
If Im our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck?
I was raised paycheck to paycheck.
How is she  how is she gonna lecture me  how is she gonna lecture me about student loans?
I owed over $100,000 just four years ago.
If Im our nominee, we will be the party of the future.
Let me set the record straight on a couple of things.
The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico.
Theyre coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras.
Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority.
And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates.
The people that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United States.
And theyve paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they cant get in.
And theyre wondering, maybe they should come illegally.
And so these are important issues, and we should address it.
Its a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise were going to keep talking about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform.
It is critically important in the 21st Century.
We do need curriculum reform.
And it should happen at the state and local level.
That is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed.
Heres the problem with Common Core.
The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied.
They will not stop with it being a suggestion.
They will turn it into a mandate.
In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it.
And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states.
First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago.
Its an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of other countries around the world.
Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, theyre the ones that are struggling.
The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses.
We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy.
We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs.
And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank.
It is eviscerating small businesses and small banks.
Well, Megyn, first of all, Im not sure that thats a correct assessment of my record.
I would go on to add that I believe all
In fact, I think that law already exists.
It is called the Constitution of the United States.
And let me go further.
I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not.
Whether they can speak or not.
Whether they can hire a lawyer or not.
Whether they have a birth certificate or not.
And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live.
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us.
He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates.
The Democrats cant even find one.
And I believe God has blessed our country.
This country has been extraordinarily blessed.
And we have honored that blessing.
And thats why God has continued to bless us.
And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people.
Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them.
I am proud that last year we helped change the law.
We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isnt doing their job.
And it is outrageous theyve only fired one person to date.
When Im president of the United States, were going to have a VA that cares more about our veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA.
Thank you.
You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba.
They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance.
Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could.
My father was a bartender.
And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream.
It is what makes our nation different.
And Im running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now.
I run for president because I believe that we cant just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
And thats why Im asking for your vote.
So we can make America greater than it has ever been.
And make this century a new American century.
Absolutely, I do, and Im gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win.
Im gonna have to earn this.
Maybe the barrier  the bars even higher for me.
Thats fine.
Ive got a record in Florida.
Im proud of my dad, and Im certainly proud of my brother.
In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it.
We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
They keep  they called me Veto Corleone.
Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line-items in the budget.
I do.
I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option.
They want to provide for their family.
But we need to control our border.
Its not  its our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in.
So I  Ive written a book about this and yet this week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that  that really mirrored what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay.
We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security.
We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country.
It is ridiculous and tragic
that people are dying because of the fact that  that local governments are not following the federal law.
Theres much to do.
And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president  and I hope to be that president  will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.
And there should be a path to earned legal status
for those that are here.
Not  not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time.
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when  when we invaded, it was a mistake.
I wouldnt have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it  I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them.
Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do.
And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their wife, of their husband did not die in vain.
So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that.
Heres the lesson that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq.
He left, and when he left Al Qaida was done for.
ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana.
To honor the people that died, we need to  we need to  stop the  Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.
No, I dont.
And I dont believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content.
It is clearly a state responsibility.
measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion.
And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country.
And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go.
He is definitely my friend.
And I think the states ought to create these standards.
And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine.
Just make sure your standards are high.
If we are going to compete in this world were in today, there is no possible way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything.
Children are going to suffer and families hearts are going to be broken that their kids wont be able to get a job in the 21st Century.
Weve done it 27 times since World War II.
I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours.
The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you cant do anything about is so dangerous for our country.
Theres 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected.
6.5 million people are working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time.
Weve created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is were not growing fast, income is not growing.
A four percent growth strategy means you fix a convoluted tax code.
You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers.
You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesnt suppress wages and kill jobs.
You embrace the energy revolution in our country.
This president and Hillary Clinton, who cant even say shes for the X.L.
pipeline even after shes left?
Give me a break.
Of course were for it.
We should be for these things to create high sustained economic growth.
And frankly, fixing our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this as well.
We can do this.
I joined the Bloomberg Foundation because of Mike Bloombergs shared commitment for meaningful education reform.
Thats why I was on it.
We never had a debate about the budget.
It was presented and we approved it.
Not item by item.
We were the only state to appropriate money for crisis pregnancy centers.
We expand dramatically the number adoptions out of our foster care system.
We did parental notification laws.
We ended partial-birth abortion.
We did all of this and we were the first state to do a choose life license plate.
Now 29 states have done it, and tens of millions of dollars have gone to create a culture where more people, more babies are adopted.
No, I didnt know.
But it doesnt matter.
I was working on the board because of education.
My record is clear.
My record as a pro-life governor is not in dispute.
I am completely pro-life, and I believe that we should have a culture of life.
Its informed by my faith from beginning to end.
And I this not just as it related to unborn babies, I did it at the end of life issues as well.
This is something that goes way beyond politics.
And I hope one day we get to the point where we respect life in its fullest form across the board.
No.
Its not true.
But I have said that Mr. Trumps language is divisive.
I want to win.
I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States.
Were not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day.
Dividing the country.
Saying, creating a grievance kind of environment.
Were going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message.
I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth.
Our economy grew at double the rate of the nation.
We created 1.3 million jobs.
We led the nation seven out of those eight years.
We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
I cut taxes, $19 billion.
If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up.
Thats how were going to win.
Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America.
Heres what I believe.
I believe were at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world.
But Washington is holding us back.
How we tax, how we regulate.
Were not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.
Were not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation.
All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues.
Heres my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida.
We can fix these things.
We can grow economically and restore Americas leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up.
I humbly ask for your vote, whenever youre gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is.
Thank you all very much.
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth.
If youre looking for someone to go to Washington, to go along to get along, to get  to agree with the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists and special interests, then I aint your guy.
.
that we have $18 trillion in debt.
Because as conservatives, as Republicans, we keep winning elections.
We got a Republican House, weve got a Republican Senate, and we dont have leaders who honor their commitments.
I will always tell the truth and do what I said I would do.
Chris, absolutely yes.
And not only will I support it
I have authored Kates law in the United States Senate and filed that legislation.
I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kates law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kates law.
You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid.
Its not a question of stupidity.
Its that they dont want to enforce the immigration laws.
That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty.
President Obama has talked about fundamentally transforming this country.
Theres 7 billion people across the face of the globe, many of whom want to come to this country.
If they come legally, great.
But if they come illegally and they get amnesty, that is how we fundamentally change this country, and it really is striking.
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth.
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, radical Islamic terrorism.
When I asked General Dempsey, the chairman of the joint chiefs, what would be required militarily to destroy ISIS, he said there is no military solution.
We need to change the conditions on the ground so that young men are not in poverty and susceptible to radicalization.
That, with all due respect, is nonsense.
Its the same answer the State Department gave that we need to give them jobs.
What we need is a commander in chief that makes  clear, if you join ISIS, if you wage jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant.
Megyn, of course its an ideological problem, thats one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they dont use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans.
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist.
He said, Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitions
We need a president that shows the courage that Egypts President al-Sisi, a Muslim, when he called out the radical Islamic terrorists who are threatening the world.
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years weve seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy.
Leading from behind is a disaster.
We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger.
Radical Islam is on the rise, Irans on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia  General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces.
Hes directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani.
The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the joint chiefs.
We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility
It is worth emphasizing that Iran released our hostages in 1981 the day Ronald Reagan was sworn into office.
Brett, can I  Brett, can I jump in on this one?
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures.
And God speaks through the Bible.
Im the son of a pastor and evangelist and Ive described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic.
He was not a Christian.
And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old.
And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church.
And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around.
And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me.
I would also note that the scripture tells us, you shall know them by their fruit.
We see lots of campaign conservatives.
But if were going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative.
There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage.
And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career.
And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States.
If Im elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office.
The first thing I intend to do is to rescind every illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Barack Obama.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
c (APPLAUSE)
I will keep my word.
My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what its like to lose it.
If you think its bad now, you shouldve seen it when I got there.
The fact is  the fact is, in the eight years before I became governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
In the eight years before I became governor, spending was increased 56 percent.
And in the eight years before I become governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
In the eight years before I became Governor, spending was increased 56 percent, and in the eight years before I became governor, there was zero net private sector job growth in New Jersey.
Zero.
For eight years.
And, whats happened since?
A hundred ninety-two thousand private sector jobs in the five and a half years Ive been governor.
We have a lot of work to do in New Jersey, but I am darn proud weve brought our state back.
Yes, I do.
And Ill tell you why: because Im the only person on this stage whos actually filed applications under the Patriot Act, who has gone before the federal  the Foreign Intelligence Service court, who has prosecuted and investigated and jailed terrorists in this country after September 11th.
This is not theoretical to me.
I went to the funerals.
We lost friends of ours in the Trade Center that day.
My own wife was two blocks from the Trade Center that day, at her office, having gone through it that morning.
When you actually have to be responsible for doing this, you can do it, and we did it, for seven years in my office, respecting civil liberties and protecting the homeland.
And I will make no apologies, ever, for protecting the lives and the safety of the American people.
We have to give more tools to our folks to be able to do that, not fewer, and then trust those people and oversee them to do it the right way.
As president, that is exactly what Ill do.
And  and, Megyn?
Megyn, thats a  that, you know, thats a completely ridiculous answer.
I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from other people.
How are you supposed to know, Megyn?
how are you supposed to  no, Ill tell you how you, look
Let me tell you something, you go
Listen, senator, you know, when youre sitting in a subcommittee, just blowing hot air about this, you can say things like that.
When youre responsible for protecting the lives of the American people, then what you need to do is to make sure
is to make sure that you use the system (ph) the way its supposed to work.
And you know  you know, Senator Paul?
Senator Paul, you know, the hugs that I remember are the hugs that I gave to the families who lost their people on September 11th.
Those are the hugs I remember, and those had nothing to do  and those had nothing to do with politics, unlike what youre doing by cutting speeches on the floor of the Senate, then putting them on the Internet within half an hour to raise money for your campaign
and while still putting our country at risk.
No, hes not lying, hes just wrong.
I mean, so, theres a difference  Im the only guy on this stage whos put out a detailed, 12 point plan on entitlement reform and heres why  because 71% of federal spending right now is on entitlements, and debt service, 71%.
And we have spent the last hour and five minutes talking about the other 29%, and no time on the 71%, and that makes no sense.
Now, let me tell you exactly what we would do on Social Security.
Yes, wed raise the retirement age two years, and phase it in over 25 years, that means wed raise it one month a year for 25 years when were all living longer, and living better lives.
Secondly, we would needs (ph) test Social Security for those who are making over $200,000 dollars a year in retirement income, and have $4 to $5 million dollars in liquid assets saved.
They dont need that Social Security check.
Social Security is meant to be  to make sure that no one whos worked hard, and played by the rules, and paid into the system grows old in poverty in America.
If we dont deal with this problem, it will bankrupt our country, or lead to massive tax increases, neither one that we want in this country.
Yeah, sure.
And, I dont disagree with ending Congress retirement program.
Im a governor, I dont have a retirement program in my state, and I dont disagree with that.
But, heres the news to the American people, hes complaining about the lying and stealing.
The lying and stealing has already occurred.
The trust fund is filled with IOUs.
We cant fix the problem just by ending (ph) Congress retirement, thats worth about, this much.
We need to go at the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem is that this system is broken.
It has been stolen from.
We have been lied to, and we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix
You know, if we want to deal with these issues, we have to deal with them in a way that makes sense.
I agree with what Dr. Carson said earlier.
The first thing we need to do to make America stronger is to strengthen our military, and I put out a really specific plan: no less than 500,000 active duty soldiers in the Army.
No less than 185,000 active duty marines in the Marine Corps.
Bring us to a 350 ship Navy again, and modernize the Ohio class of submarines, and bring our Air Force back to 2,600 aircraft that are ready to go.
Those are the kind of things that are going to send a clear message around the world.
Those are the things that we need to start working on immediately to make our country stronger and make it better.
Those are the things that we need to be able to be doing.
And as we move towards dealing with foreign aid, I dont disagree with Senator Pauls position that we shouldnt be funding our enemies.
But I absolutely believe that Israel is a priority to be able to fund and keep them strong and safe after eight years of this administration.
Well, thank you, Megyn.
Listen, I was born into a middle class family in New Jersey.
My dad came home from serving in the Army after having lost his father, worked in the Breyers ice cream plant in Newark, New Jersey.
Was the first person to graduate from college.
He put himself through college at night.
My mom was a secretary.
I was appointed United States attorney on September 10, 2001.
And I spent the next seven years of my career fighting terrorism and putting terrorists in jail.
Im a conservative, pro-life governor in a state where it is really tough to be both.
A state like New Jersey, with lots of Democrats, but still we cut taxes, we balanced budgets.
We fought the teachers union.
This president has had weak leadership, which has led to bad choices.
We have got to stop worrying about being loved and start worrying about being respected.
And thats exactly how Ill lead our country.
Well, Im pro-life, Ive always been pro-life, and Ive got a position that I think is consistent with many Americans out there in that
in that I believe that that is an unborn child thats in need of protection out there, and Ive said many a time that that unborn child can be protected, and there are many other alternatives that can also protect the life of that mother.
Thats been consistently proven.
Unlike Hillary Clinton, who has a radical position in terms of support for Planned Parenthood, I defunded Planned Parenthood more than four years ago, long before any of these videos came out
Ive got a position thats in line with everyday America.
Chris, I actually said that on your show earlier this year.
I acknowledged that.
I said I actually listened to the American people.
And I think people across America want a leader whos actually going to listen to them.
I talked to border state governors and other elected officials.
I look at how this president, particularly through last November, messed up the immigration system in this country.
Most importantly, I listened to the people of America.
I believe we need to secure the border.
Ive been to the border with Governor Abbott in Texas and others, seeing the problems that they have there.
There is international criminal organizations penetrating our southern based borders, and we need to do something about it.
Secure the border, enforce the law, no amnesty, and go forward with the legal immigration system that gives priority to American working families and wages.
What about then (ph), we need to focus on the ones we have.
You look at Egypt, probably the best relationship weve had in Israel, at least in my lifetime, incredibly important.
You look at the Saudis  in fact, earlier this year, I met with Saudi leaders, and leaders from the United Arab Emirates, and I asked them whats the greatest challenge in the world today?
Set aside the Iran deal.
They said its the disengagement of America.
We are leading from behind under the Obama-Clinton doctrine  Americas a great country.
We need to stand up and start leading again, and we need to have allies, not just in Israel, but throughout the Persian Gulf.
We  we spent a lot of time talking about Hillary Clinton and and pitting us back and forth.
Lets be clear, we should be talking about Hillary Clinton on that last subject, because everywhere in the world that Hillary Clinton touched is more messed up today than before she and the president (INAUDIBLE).
Well, the voters in Wisconsin elected me last year for the third time because they wanted someone who aimed high, not aimed low.
You know, people like Hillary Clinton think you grow the economy by growing Washington.
One report last year showed that six of the top 10 wealthiest counties in America were in or around Washington, D.C..
I think most of us in America understand that people, not the government creates jobs.
And one of the best things we can do is get the government out of the way, repeal Obamacare, put in  reign in all the out of control regulations, put in place and all of the above energy policy, give people the education, the skills that the need to succeed, and lower the tax rate and reform the tax code.
Thats what Ill do as president, just like I did in Wisconsin.
Well, first off, lets remember.
I still remember, as a kid, tying a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of my house during the 444 days that Iran held 52 Americans hostage.
Iran is not a place we should be doing business with.
To me, you terminate the deal on day one, you reinstate the sanctions authorized by Congress, you go to Congress and put in place even more crippling sanctions in place, and then you convince our allies to do the same.
This is not just bad with Iran, this is bad with ISIS.
It is tied together, and, once and for all, we need a leader whos gonna stand up and do something about it.
Its yet another example of the failed foreign policy of the Obama-Clinton doctrine.
Well, I think the most important thing we can do when it comes to policing  its something youve had a guest on whos a friend of mine Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clark, whos talked to me about this many times in the past  its about training.
Its about making sure that law enforcement professionals, not only in the way in to their positions but all the way through their time, have the proper training, particularly when it comes to the use of force.
And that we protect and stand up and support those men and women who are doing their jobs in law enforcement.
And for the very few that dont, that there are consequences to show that we treat everyone the same here in America.
Well first off, for the cyber attack with Russia the other day, its sad to think right now, but probably the Russian and Chinese government know more about Hillary Clintons e-mail server than do the members of the United States Congress.
And  and that has put our national security at risk.
If I am president, he wont think about that.
You know, Putin believes in the old Lenin adage: you probe with bayonets.
When you find mush, you push.
When you find steel, you stop.
Under Obama and Clinton, we found a lot of mush over the last two years.
We need to have a national security that puts steel in front of our enemies.
I would send weapons to Ukraine.
I would work with NATO to put forces on the eastern border of Poland and the Baltic nations, and I would reinstate, put in place back in the missile defense system that we had in Poland and in the Czech Republic.
(APPLAUSE)
Im certainly an imperfect man.
And its only by the blood of Jesus Christ that Ive been redeemed from my sins.
So I know that God doesnt call me to do a specific thing, God hasnt given me a list, a Ten Commandments, if you will, of things to act on the first day.
What God calls us to do is follow his will.
And ultimately thats what Im going to try to do.
And I hope people see it in my state, even in the big challenges I took on when I had over 100,000 protesters in and around our capital, trying to do what I thought was the right thing.
It wasnt just how I took on those political battles.
It was ultimately how I acted.
Not responding in kind.
Not lashing out.
But just being decent going forward and living my life in a way that would be a testimony to him and our faith.
Im guy with a wife and two kids, and Harley.
One article called me aggressively normal.
I ran for governor because I was worried about my kids future.
Then, I took on the big government union bosses, and we won.
They tried to recall me, and we won.
They target us again, and we won.
We balanced the budget, cut taxes, and turned our state around with big, bold reforms.
It wasnt too late for Wisconsin, and its not too late for America.
Thats why I ask for your vote.
Chris, I disagree with the idea that the real issue is a constitutional amendment.
Thats a long and difficult process.
Ive actually taken the position thats bolder than that.
A lot of people are talking about defunding planned parenthood, as if thats a huge game changer.
I think its time to do something even more bold.
I think the next president ought to invoke the Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the constitution now that we clearly know that that baby inside the mothers womb is a person at the moment of conception.
The reason we know that it is is because of the DNA schedule that we now have clear scientific evidence on.
And, this notion that we just continue to ignore the personhood of the individual is a violation of that unborn childs Fifth and 14th Amendment rights for due process and equal protection under the law.
Its time that we recognize the Supreme Court is not the supreme being, and we change the policy to be pro-life and protect children instead of rip up their body parts and sell them like theyre parts to a Buick.
Its not too big to shrink.
But the problem is we have a Wall Street-to-Washington access of power that has controlled the political climate.
The donor class feeds the political class who does the dance that the donor class wants.
And the result is federal government keeps getting bigger.
Every person on this stage who has been a governor will tell that you the biggest fight they had was not the other party.
Wasnt even the legislature.
It was the federal government, who continually put mandates on the states that we had to suck up and pay for.
And the fact is there are a lot of things happening at the federal level that are absolutely beyond the jurisdiction of the Constitution.
This is power that should be shifted back to the states, whether its the EPA, there is no role at the federal level for the Department of Education.
And Im still one who says that we can get rid of the Internal Revenue Service if we would pass the fair tax, which is a tax on consumption rather than a tax on peoples income, and move power back where the founders believed it should have been all along.
Well, lets all be reminded, 60 million Americans are on Social Security, 60 million.
A third of those people depend on 90% of their income from Social Security.
Nobody in this country is on Social Security because they made the decision when they were starting work at 14 that they wanted to trust some of their money with the government.
The government took it out of their check whether they wanted them to or not.
And, if person goes to 65, theyre going to spend 51 years with the government reaching into their pocket at every paycheck.
Its always that the government figures that they can do this off the backs of people, many of whom are poor, and depend on that money, and I just think its fundamentally lying to people and stealing from them, and we shouldnt be doing it.
The fair (ph) transforms the process by which we fund Social Security and Medicare because the money paid in consumption is paid by everybody, including illegals, prostitutes, pimps, drug dealers, all the people that are freeloading off the system now.
Thats why it ought to be a transformed system.
Ronald Reagan said trust, but verify.
President Obama is trust, but vilify.
He trusts our enemies and vilifies everyone who disagrees with him.
And the reason we disagree with him has nothing ot do with party.
It has to do with the incredibly dangerous place that this world is gonna be as a result of a deal in which we got nothing.
We didnt even get four hostages out.
We got nothing, and Iran gets everything they want.
We said we would have anywhere, anytime negotiations and inspections, we gave that up.
We said that we would make sure that they didnt have any nuclear capacity, we gave that up.
The president cant tell you what we got.
Ill tell you what the world got.
The world has a burgeoning nuclear power that didnt, as the Soviets, say we might defend ourselves in a war.
What the Iranians have said is, we will wipe Israel off the face of the map, and we will bring death to America.
When someone points a gun at your head and loads it, by God, you ought to take them seriously, and we need to take that seriously.
The military is not a social experiment.
The purpose of the military is kill people and break things.
Its not to transform the culture by trying out some ideas that some people think would make us a different country and more diverse.
The purpose is to protect America.
Im not sure how paying for transgender surgery for soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines makes our country safer.
Weve reduced the military by 25 percent
under President Obama.
The disaster is that weve forgotten why we have a military.
The purpose of it is to make sure that we protect every American, wherever that American is, and if an American is calling out for help, whether its in Benghazi or at the border, then we ought to be able to answer it.
Weve not done that because weve decimated our military.
Were flying B-52s.
The most recent one that was put in service was November of 1962.
A lot of the B-52s were flying, weve only got 44 that are in service combat ready, and the fact is, most of them are older than me.
And thats pretty scary.
It seems like this election has been a whole lot about a person whos very high in the polls, that doesnt have a clue about how to govern.
A person who has been filled with scandals, and who could not lead, and, of course, Im talking about Hillary Clinton.
is in trouble, but its not beyond repair.
But its going to take leadership who sees the greatness of this country, and who believes that once again we can be one nation, under God.
Ill be my best to do that, and thank you for your support.
first of all, Megyn, you should know that  that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times.
Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what?
To treat the mentally ill.
Ten thousand of them sit in our prisons.
It costs $22,500 a year
to keep them in prison.
Id rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life.
Secondly, we are rehabbing the drug-addicted.
Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems.
We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is  is threatening their very families.
So were treating them and getting them on their feet.
And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where theyre sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet.
Everybody has a right to their God-given purpose.
Chris, first of all, I was just saying to Chris Christie, they say were outspoken, we need to take lessons from Donald Trump if were really going to learn it.
Here is the thing about Donald Trump.
Donald Trump is hitting a nerve in this country.
He is.
Hes hitting a nerve.
People are frustrated.
Theyre fed up.
They dont think the government is working for them.
And for people who want to just tune him out, theyre making a mistake.
But the point is that we all have solutions.
Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built.
They want to see an end to illegal immigration.
They want to see it, and we all do.
But we all have different ways of getting there.
And youre going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are.
Lets start off with my father being a mailman.
So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom having trouble, you know, making ends meet.
But I think she will come in a narrow way.
The nominee of this party, if theyre going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth.
Which is balancing budgets.
You know, we were talking about it.
People were saying, could we do it?
I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus.
Economic growth is the key.
Economic growth is the key to everything.
But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who dont seem to ever think that they get a fair deal.
And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they dont have a chance to move up.
You know, America is a miracle country.
And we have to restore the sense that the Amiracle (ph) will apply to you.
Each and every one of the people in this country whos watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again.
It will be and can be done.
Well, look, Im an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage.
But Ive also said the court has ruled
Wait, Megyn, the court has ruled, and I said well accept it.
And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay.
Because somebody doesnt think the way I do, doesnt mean that I cant care about them or cant love them.
So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them.
Because you know what?
Thats what were taught when we have strong faith.
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us.
I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and Ive been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan.
So, look, Im going to love my daughters, Im going to love them no matter what they do.
Because, you know what, God gives me unconditional love.
Im going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me.
Well, Megyn, my father was a mailman.
His father was a coal miner.
My mothers mother could barely speak English.
And their son today stands on this podium in the great state of Ohio not only as the governor, but a candidate for president of the United States.
I do believe in miracles.
You know, Ive had a lot of elections.
But my elections are really not about campaigns.
I tell my people that these are about a movement.
And a movement to do what?
To restore common sense.
A movement to do things like provide economic growth.
And a movement not to let anybody be behind.
You know, today the country is divided.
You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities.
Weve got to unite our country again, because were stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided.
And weve got to listen to other peoples voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that Ive read in my lifetime, the lord is not picking us.
But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong.
He wants America to succeed.
And he wants America to lead.
And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends.
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do.
I want to tell you what Ive done.
I was a member of the Armed Services Committee for 18 years.
I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world.
No.
2.
I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon.
We had a $5 trillion surplus and we cut taxes.
I spent ten years in the private sector, actually learning how business works.
And now Im the governor of Ohio, and I inherited a state that was on the brink of dying.
And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.
I will tell you one thing.
I wouldve a whole lot rather had Carly Fiorina over there doing our negotiation than John Kerry.
Maybe we wouldve gotten a deal where we didnt give everything away.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but hell no, to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror
When America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation.
Yes, our allies are not perfect, but Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxy.
