Weve lost 2 million jobs, 2 million jobs, under this administration in manufacturing.
It says that after 35 million people have come here over the last 20 years, almost all of whom are unskilled workers, flattening wages, creating horrible opportunity -- a lack of opportunities for unskilled workers, we're going to do something about reducing the level of immigration by 25 percent.
And so you look at the fact that we brought in 35 million, 35 million legal and illegal immigrants over the last 20 years, more than any period in American history.
I took the state of Ohio from an $8 billion hole and a 350,000 job loss to a $2 billion surplus and a gain of 350,000 jobs.
20  over 40 percent of small and mid-size banks that loan money to small businesses have been wiped out over the  since Dodd-Frank has passed.
This is not just a little conflict with a Middle Eastern country that we've just now given over $100 billion to, the equivalent in U.S. terms is $5 trillion.
We came in, we balanced an $11 billion deficit on a $29 billion budget by cutting over 800 programs in the state budget.
1.5 million jobs created during the worst economic time this country has had since the Great Depression while the rest of the country lost 400,000 jobs.
We went from $1 billion of reserves to $9 billion of reserves.
We balanced a $3.6 billion budget deficit, we did it by cutting taxes -- $4.7 billion to help working families, family farmers, small business owners and senior citizens.
Well, the average small manufacturer, whatever they're manufacturing, drugs or anything, if they have less than 50 employees, the average cost in terms of regulations is $34,000 per employee.
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion.
Yeah, but that -- because the math is, if you -- 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand.
Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof.
And what democratic socialism is about is saying that it is immoral and wrong that the top one-tenth of 1 percent in this country own almost 90 percent -- almost -- own almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.
And, finally, we went from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph).
He knew that we needed funding for overseas contingent operations, $30 million that would go to support our troops.
Yes, we had to make tough choices, and in doing so, we saved 80,000 jobs, went on to grow to 160,000 jobs.
My view is that when you have millions of seniors in this country trying to get by -- and I don't know how they do on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year -- you don't cut Social Security, you expand it.
Well, as you know, Becky, we have the lowest labor participation rate in 50 years, and we also have the slowest growth in wages in the history of our country, in a 20-year period.
Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes.
Our poor families are becoming poorer, and 70 percent of us are earning the same, or less than we were 12 years ago.
Illegal immigration is costing us more than $200 billion dollars a year just to maintain what we have.
Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same.
And I have assets -- big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected -- 9 billion 240 million dollars.
I cut taxes every year, totaling $19 billion.
And, if Congress wants to mess with the retirement program, why dont we let them start by changing their retirement program, and not have one, instead of talking about getting rid of Social Security and Medicare that was robbed $700 billion dollars to pay for Obamacare.
In fact, we vetoed five income tax increases during my time as governor.
2,000?
We have 27 million people living in poverty.
That it is wrong, today, in a rigged economy, that 57 percent of all new income is going to the top 1 percent.
In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again.
We cut business taxes $2.3 billion, and we cut regulation by one-third of what my predecessor put in place.
The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977.
And the net effect was, during my eight years, 1.3 million jobs were created.
Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733.
Lets be honest, $18 trillion of debt, record low participation rate in the workforce.
We're talking about a state that moved graduation rates forward from 27th in the nation to second-highest.
And the rate in which people are working is almost five points higher than it is nationally.
50 percent of todays seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check.
We have 400,000 small businesses forming every year in this country.
According to Cato and other analysis, the only () thats actually reduced government spending.
I was appointed U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001, and the world changed enormously the next day, and that happened in my state.
Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready.
The fact is, I built a net worth of more than $10 billion.
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent.
We should not be the country that has the highest rate of childhood poverty of any major country and more wealth and income inequality than any other country.
I'm putting up 100 percent of my own money.
Weve cut our budget 26 percent.
Our Navy is at its smallest size since 1917; our Air Force, since 1940.
Weve cut $5 billion in taxes
The isolationist is the one who wants to continue to follow a foreign policy that has fewer democracies today than when Barack Obama came into office around the world.
Six million more people.
And we put our city on a path to reduce violent crime, or part one (ph) crime by more than any other major city in America over the next 10 years.
Our graduation rate improved by 50 percent.
I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumers gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate.
Our emissions are lower than they were in 1995.
Rhode Island had the biggest drop of the unemployment rate over my four budgets of all but one state.
Weve more than made up for the jobs that were lost during the recession.
And they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education.
Before I came in, the unemployment rate was over eight percent.
15,000 manufacturers have left this country.
And what we did is we cut state spending.
We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq.
40 percent of the people who come here illegally come legally, and then they overstay the visa.
You know, I left my medical practice and ran for office because I was concerned about an $18 trillion debt.
And we'll save a trillion dollars over the next 10 years.
And finally, our Medicaid is growing at one of the lowest rates in the country.
And now Hewlett Packard is almost 300,000 jobs.
I am the only person on this dais -- the only person -- that fought very, very hard against us (ph), and I wasn't a sitting politician going into Iraq, because I said going into Iraq -- that was in 2003, you can check it out, check out -- I'll give you 25 different stories.
Its now down to 4.6 percent.
And he was prepared and had vetoed it unless this deal went through.
Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977.
But we -- hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I've used
We went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every market segment.
In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan.
None of us on this state are under investigation by the FBI because we destroyed government records, or because we leaked secrets.
In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's accountability, just as John said.
This administration, with President Obama and Hillary Clinton, has created insecurity the likes of which we never would've imagined.
First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still coming illegally.
The bad news is, we have 470,000 going out of business every year.
Despite those difficult times, we doubled the size of the company, we quadrupled its topline growth rate, we quadrupled its cash flow, we tripled its rate of innovation.
They stop 97 percent of the illegal immigrants through there.
African-American youth unemployment is 51 percent.
And the way you expand it is by lifting the cap on taxable incomes so that you do away with the absurdity of a millionaire paying the same amount into the system as somebody making $118,000.
It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000.
Becky, it is the height of hypocrisy for Mrs. Clinton to talk about being the first woman President, when every single policy she espouses, and every single policy of President Obama has been demonstrably bad for women.
They're not accepting any of the people, any of the migrants that have been -- the refugees that are being pushed out of Syria.
We arent giving the training and the investment in our workers and were bringing in people to compete against low-wage workers.
We were  we had  we balanced every budget.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
$5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn't work.
Heres my record: As governor of the state of Florida, I defunded Planned Parenthood.
My standards for more new, good jobs for Americans, for raising wages for Americans.
A $5 billion Web site.
In Wisconsin, you're losing $2.2 billion right now.
Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we're going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that's it.
We borrow a million dollars a minute.
In recent testimony, the commandant of the Marine Corps said half of the non-deployed units were not ready and you know, the sequester is cutting the heart out of our personnel.
Barack Obama is the first President in American history to hold our military hostage.
We brought the budget into balance with no tax increases.
I did say, when I was secretary of state, three years ago, that I hoped it would be the gold standard.
It allows President Obama to borrow unlimited amounts of money.
I've used it three times, maybe four times.
It's never below zero.
You know, the FBI director, the president's appointed FBI director has said this week that because of a lack of support from politicians like the president of the United States, that police officers are afraid to get out of their cars; that they're afraid to enforce the law.
As governor, I came in at the depths of the recession and we turned my state around.
1 and you went down the tubes.
We're sitting up here talking about all these other things; 71 percent of federal spending today is on entitlements, and debt service.
We have a criminal justice system that lets CEOs on Wall Street walk away, and yet we are imprisoning or giving jail sentences to young people who are smoking marijuana.
Secondly, we would needs (ph) test Social Security for those who are making over $200,000 dollars a year in retirement income, and have $4 to $5 million dollars in liquid assets saved.
$19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created.
And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.
And there are 48 million people involved -- 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other.
Look, Id get rid of the death penalty and the marriage penalty and Id simplify the brackets to 25 percent, 10 percent, 2 percent so that an average middle-class family  a teacher married to law enforcement
After those four years of looking back and being prepared, the preparation to be the most powerful individual in the world requires an extraordinary amount of work: not just having been the governor of the 12th largest economy in the world, which I might add, we added 1.5 million jobs during that period of time over that 2007 through 2014 period, a period when America was going through the most deep recession it had been through since the Great Depression.
That Great Recession, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, $13 trillion in wealth disappeared.
And 0.6 percent of Americans are at the top echelon, over 464,000, 0.6 Americans.
When CEO income has risen 90 percent above the average worker, when the bottom 90 percent of this country's economy has had stagnant wages for the past 40 years, somebody is taking it in the teeth.
Well, if you look at a plan that I introduced, the 20/20 clear vision for America, we increased growth by 10 percent, 1 percent a year.
Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state -- $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.
As I said, we are spending $200 billion -- we are spending $200 billion a year on maintaining what we have.
And one of the things that I did during the FISA bill in 2007, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was introduce with Russ Feingold two amendments basically saying, "We understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the Internet age, but after a certain period of time, you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought -- if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them."
Well, lets all be reminded, 60 million Americans are on Social Security, 60 million.
The 50-, 70-, $90,000 paying jobs with benefits.
Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.
92 percent -- 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama's first term belonged to women.
And not only did I win, but I then worked with a Democratic legislature to put in place the most sweeping conservative reforms of any state in America, taking us from the most dangerous state in America to the fourth safest; reducing our welfare rolls by over 1 million, and replacing over 700,000 private sector jobs.
Anderson, look, this is -- the big banks -- I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP.
We created 1.3 million jobs.
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.
Weve reduced the military by 25 percent
Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive.
What I don't like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50,000 a year, and has to hire H&R Block to do the -- because it's so complicated.
Three million women have fallen into poverty under this administration.
The truth is 75 percent of the American people think the government is corrupt; 82 percent of the American people think these problems that have festered for 50 years in some cases, 25 years in other cases.
That's less than 1 percent.
35 percent corporate tax rate is the second highest in the world.
However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally went out of business -- like Gateway -- taking all their jobs with them.
One of the reasons I introduced the 20/20 plan, 20 percent flat tax on corporations as well as on individuals, is so we could be competitive, so we can bring those manufacturing jobs back.
And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.
One of the great challenges that we have, $150 billion is fixing to go to a country that killed our Marines in Lebanon, that used their weapons to kill our young men in Iran.
And let me just go back a minute and say that on this TARP program, I introduced a piece of legislation calling for a windfall profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than $5 billion, that it was time for them, once they got their compensation and their bonus, to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses and the truck drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out.
Not only do we not raise taxes, we did the largest income tax cut in the states history.
John, listen, let's keep in mind that for one-third of the 60 million Americans on Social Security it represents 90 percent of their income.
Weve cut our state budget 26 percent in 8 years.
So we're going to put thousands and thousands of jobs in my state, I think it's something like 30,000 in Ohio, other states across this country, we're going to put people -- manufacturing jobs, the kind of jobs that are far greater than minimum wage, this administration is willing to put at risk for something its own EPA says is marginal (ph)... Harley.
And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.
But if you want to look at what has happened, if we look at the facts in terms of how we're going to deal with this, since that crash, in the last 10 years, the amount of the world's capital economy that Wall Street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent.
Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans -- or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?
We had a $5 trillion surplus and we cut taxes.
Let me just say, if you're talking about an $18 trillion economy, you're talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product.
I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus.
All the way back to when Ronald Reagan signed a piece of legislation that basically allowed for amnesty for over 4 million people, and the border is still not secure.
So, yes, Im proud we cut taxes, we cut spending, 30,000 fewer state government bureaucrats from the day I took office.
Both Democrats and Republicans have gotten us in the mess we're in -- $18 trillion of debt, a bad deal with Iran, we're not staying with Israel.
What made America into a great nation was the fact that we said, that guy just put in $1 billion, let's create an environment that's even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in $2 billion.
The fact is though that for 15,000 people a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the current levels of funding, and the current number of law enforcement officers.
We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.
And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no -- we're the only -- one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years?
Since it was passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented.
Our companies, and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70,000 page tax code, so, that's why I've chosen to get rid of the whole thing, and have one single rate, 14 and a-half percent for everybody, business, and for corporate income, and personal income.
The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business.
We're up 347,000 jobs.
The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up.
We used to have 16 workers for one retiree, now you have three workers for one retiree.
Theres 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected.
Ive introduced the largest tax cut in our history.
I started as a secretary and became ultimately the chief executive of the largest technology company in the world, almost $90 billion in over 150 countries.
In the eight years before I became Governor, spending was increased 56 percent, and in the eight years before I became governor, there was zero net private sector job growth in New Jersey.
There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone.
There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country.
I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history, according to Americans for Tax Reform.
A man had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this -- this person that killed their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where it was going.
A hundred ninety-two thousand private sector jobs in the five and a half years Ive been governor.
One report last year showed that six of the top 10 wealthiest counties in America were in or around Washington, D.C..
You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent -- 80 percent -- and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover.
And we now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in.
Let's also understand that back in 1988 when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont, a state which has virtually no gun control, that I supported a ban on assault weapons.
Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor.
Yes, wed raise the retirement age two years, and phase it in over 25 years, that means wed raise it one month a year for 25 years when were all living longer, and living better lives.
Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one percent.
The ones that Im most worried about are the 1 percent of Americans in uniform who have been fighting this war for 14 years.
Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals.
I do not want to walk my five grandkids through the charred remains of a once great country called America, and say, "Here you go, $20 trillion dollars of debt.
And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
When I left, we had reduced the employment by over 25,000 and cut taxes.
What disturbed people so much about -- and I would agree with Senator Sanders on this -- leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us, as a people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was -- was one of the worst blunders in modern American history.
I represented a 70 percent Democratic district and won with 60 percent of the vote.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income.
If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books.
We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.
I believe that the signal that we sent to the region when the Iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting Iran's greater position on this very important balance of power, among our greatest ally Israel, and the Sunnis represented by the Saudi regime, and Iran.
Nobody went to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid... ...and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks.
Why don't we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the cure for cancer, for heart disease, for diabetes and for Alzheimer's, a disease alone that will cost us --
We have $18 trillion in debt.
I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done.
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals... ...George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that.
We went after companies that were doing things that were against the law.
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting.
that we have $18 trillion in debt.
We have -- wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt.
Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes.
Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities.
In the eight years before I became governor, spending was increased 56 percent.
I sell apartments for -- I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China.
And by the way, when I left, there were over 1 million fewer people on welfare in New York state than when I took office... ... replacing dependency with opportunity.
His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax,
I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.
Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies and the economy, he ran through Obamacare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt companies, raised taxes, and almost completely eliminated one industry because of its taxes.
We got $18 trillion in debt.
22 percent over ten years is not too much.
We're going to have a three-bracket tax code, 10, 15 and 25 percent.
And nobody, nobody on either one of these stages has done more than I've done and the people of the State of Texas to deal with securing that border.
I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.
I turned down last week $5 million from somebody.
First, all the 40 million Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate.
First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago.
Senator Sanders did vote five times against the Brady bill.
We have a budget closer to $3.5 trillion.
I deployed the National Guard after I stood on the ramp in Dallas, Texas and looked the president of the United States in the eye and said, "Mr. President, if you won't secure the border, Texas will," and that's exactly what we did.
I cut taxes, $19 billion.
I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds.
Hes directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani.
I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires, and in fact, tonight, in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties -- 100,000 people in this country -- watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country.
The border's been insecure for 25 years; 307,000 veterans have died waiting for health care.
The main problem with Medicare right now is that the average person pays in taxes over their whole lifetime about $100,000.
You know, the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had 10, he has still got $9 billion left, that's not fair, we need to take more of his money.
What we did is pass a $15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many, many new doctors, and nurses into the V.A.
Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.
We cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and think that a resort to old names is going to move us forward.
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now.
No less than 185,000 active duty marines in the Marine Corps.
America has many challenges confronting us -- ending the perpetual wars, addressing climate change, addressing income inequality, funding education, funding infrastructure, funding healthcare, helping black Americans, helping Native Americans.
I mean, so, theres a difference  Im the only guy on this stage whos put out a detailed, 12 point plan on entitlement reform and heres why  because 71% of federal spending right now is on entitlements, and debt service, 71%.
People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years.
They cost American taxpayers $1.4 trillion a year.
Well, I've been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system... Well, Dana, I've known John Roberts for 20 years, he's amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court.
And Ill tell you why: because Im the only person on this stage whos actually filed applications under the Patriot Act, who has gone before the federal  the Foreign Intelligence Service court, who has prosecuted and investigated and jailed terrorists in this country after September 11th.
You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion.
We have 30,000 fewer state bureaucrats than the day I took office.
The fact is  the fact is, in the eight years before I became governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years.
You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses, using other people's money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once --
Absolutely we shouldn't be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and I'll tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, "we'll give in because Obama threatens a veto."
We have 30,000 fewer state employees since the day I took office.
What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always taken as Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country, employ more of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at higher and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic, social, and political life of our country.
The first thing we need to do to make America stronger is to strengthen our military, and I put out a really specific plan: no less than 500,000 active duty soldiers in the Army.
Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line-items in the budget.
We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is  is threatening their very families.
The fair (ph) transforms the process by which we fund Social Security and Medicare because the money paid in consumption is paid by everybody, including illegals, prostitutes, pimps, drug dealers, all the people that are freeloading off the system now.
Eighty percent of young people didn't vote.
We just spent -- we just spent the last 10 minutes... ...we need to reform the Department of Defense, we need as well... ...to invest in our military technology, and we need to care for our veterans so 307,000... ...aren't dying waiting for health care.
My plan, the Tax Foundation said, would create 5 and a half million new jobs over the next decade.
I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kates law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kates law.
Unlike Hillary Clinton, who has a radical position in terms of support for Planned Parenthood, I defunded Planned Parenthood more than four years ago, long before any of these videos came out
But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that's the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.
And we did come up with the first international agreement that China has signed.
When I left the workforce, New York State had been reduced by over 15 percent.
That brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in American history.
We can rearrange the chair, over $18 trillion of debt.
I started the Gang of Seven, and it led to the overtaking of the 40-year Democratic rule of Congress, because I didn't -- I stood up to the old-boy network in Washington, D.C. because I believed that Washington was not the solution, that Washington was the problem, just like Ronald Reagan said.
Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico.
And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders.
END.ETXJun 16, 2015 12:50 ET .EOF
Im the only one to separate siamese twins
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism.
$2.5 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world.
Today, it is my view that when you have the three... ...largest banks in America -- are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail, we have got to break them up.
Until we have a president of the United States that gets up every day and goes to the Oval Office with the intent purpose of securing that border, and there's not anybody on either one of these stages that has the experience of dealing with this as I have for over 14 years with that 1200-mile border.
And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.
We've cut 26 percent of our budget.
I owed over $100,000 just four years ago.
Again... ...One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average.
...Giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here, and put down their roots, and met as a series of standards... ...lost (ph) -- I introduced that in 2007 -- We need a comprehensive reform, and we need to be able to define our borders.
The case that was decided around 1900 was, people had a green card, were here legally, and they said that their children were citizens.
You're talking about $2.7 trillion.
I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I'll be creating many millions of jobs if I'm given -- if I'm given the opportunity to be president.
first of all, Megyn, you should know that  that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times.
Under Obama and Clinton, we found a lot of mush over the last two years.
We have to put the personnel on that border in the right places; you have to put the strategic fencing in place; and you have to have aviation assets that fly all the way from Tijuana to El Paso to Brownsville, Texas -- 1,933 miles looking down 24/7, with the technology to be able to identify what individuals are doing, and ID when they are in obviously illegal activities or suspicious activities, and quick response teams come.
And after those planes hit, for five-and-a-half-hours after that, I couldn't reach her, didn't know whether she was dead or alive, and we had three children at the time, 8, 5 and 1.
One of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie Gray's tragic death.
When there were 100,000 protesters in my capital, I didn't back down, when they issued death threats against me and threats against my family, I didn't back down, when they tried to recall me, I didn't back down, and when they made me the -- one of their number-one targets last year, I didn't back down.
In the first day in office, my first executive order, I revoked every one of the executive orders that he had -- he had enacted over the prior 12 years.
Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.
Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v. Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty.
And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming.
I voted against that piece of legislation because it had guest-worker provisions in it which the Southern Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery.
You know, we have 4.1 million federal employees.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
And the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that Jeb Bush smoked 40 years ago.
By the way, the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know General Suleimani's name is because Russia is in Syria right now, because the head of the Quds force traveled to Russia and talked Vladimir Putin into aligning themselves with Iran and Syria to prop up Bashar al- Assad.
These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours.
Look, the -- the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family.
As a result of that legislation, we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country who put their lives on the line to defend them.
For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created.
Tom Harkin, a very good friend of Hillary Clinton's and mine, one of the leading labor advocates, also voted against that.
In fact, property taxes are lower today in my state than they were before we took office.
We've grown well over 300,000 jobs.
-- we increased child support -- we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent.
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.
But I attended a lot of funerals, including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a poor African-American neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner.
I was running --
We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor.
We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them.
When John Kennedy was elected president in 1960, it was 26 percent.
We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and single women who didn't make a lot of money during their careers, and they are impoverished, and they need more help from the Social Security system.
Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here.
I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
I mean, what we had was something the government made -- basically a bag of gas -- that cut loose, destroyed everything in its path, left thousands of people powerless, but they couldn't get rid of it because we had too much money invested in it, so we had to keep it.
After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up.
This is a government for 36 years has killed Americans, they kidnapped Americans, they have maimed Americans.
The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses.
But here, a total net worth of -- net worth, not assets, not -- a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets -- Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York -- many other places all over the world.
We balanced the budget, cut taxes, and turned our state around with big, bold reforms.
Ronald Reagan, our plan is based on the Ronald Reagan tax cuts of 1986.
Radical Islam is on the rise, Irans on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia  General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces.
And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of -- of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens.
Ive been to Ferguson, Ive been to Baltimore, because I want our party to be bigger, better and bolder, and Im the only one that leads Hillary Clinton in five states that were won by President Obama.
Weve created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is were not growing fast, income is not growing.
We just spent a half-billion dollars arming and training soldiers, the rebel soldiers in Syria.
$24 trillion.
We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together.
I turned 18 in 1980, and my first vote was for Ronald Reagan.
And unlike Donald Trump and Bobby Jindal, we dont add $10 trillion to the deficit.
We balanced our budget every year for 8 years.
And by the way, this country right now owes $19 trillion.
...Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state -- when the NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually did.
So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years -- you know, we're at $8 trillion now.
I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.
But the bottom line is, every morning I get up, I veto 400 bills from a crazy liberal Democratic legislature, not one of them has been overridden.
Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.
And in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure; raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour; pay equity for women workers; and our disastrous trade policies, which have cost us millions of jobs; and make every public college and university in this country tuition free.
I wouldn't change the $10 bill, or the $20 bill.
And we have spent the last hour and five minutes talking about the other 29%, and no time on the 71%, and that makes no sense.
I understand that you're building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."
And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our Congress and we take a backseat.
I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week.
He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in.
She was a refugee, her family escaped from Vietnam on a boat-- her entire extended family, after the communists took over, when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying.
Dana, with all being said to Mr. Trump... Immigration did not come up in 2016 because Mr. Trump brought it up.
Thats the most important  2 percent  of my plan.
WALKER ... that failed three times in four and a half years when I got elected, because it is working.
We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys.
We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
But we found ways to work together on everything from...
President Obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration problem.
More than everybody on the next stage combined by more than the other 49 states, in New York State.
There is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they smoked pot in high school, and yet the people going to -- to jail for this are poor people, often African-Americans and often Hispanics, and yet the rich kids who use drugs aren't.
Because only if it's about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.
You said you're going to cut funding for women's health.
And in the eight years before I become governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
Iran sanctions -- the Iran sanctions that brought them to the table, those are sanctions that we put in place when I was in the United States Senate, and a whole host of other things that put me in a position of saying, I not only have a great vision, but I can govern effectively in Washington.
And the Libyan people had a free election the first time since 1951.
Your brother -- and your brother's administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster, those last three months, that Abraham Lincoln couldn't have been elected.
Even if its only 2 percent.
And -- (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things.
As a senator, I earned a reputation for courageous votes against the Bush-Cheney tax cuts the favored the wealthy, against the tragedy of the Iraq war, for environmental stewardship, for protection of our civil liberties.
Were giving them $150 billion dollars plus, they are going to be  Ill tell you what, if Iran was a stock, you folks should go out and buy it right now because youll quadruple  this, whats happening in Iran, is a disgrace, and its going to lead to destruction in large portions of the world.
We're soon going to be at $20 trillion.
Yes, we have reduced the size of government.
Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours.
You know, she was one of 24 children, got married at age 13, had only a third grade education, had to raise two sons by herself, refused to be a victim.
We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in.
Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened.
One thing I like to remind people is, back in 2007, Rudy Giuliani was leading the polls for almost a year.
The fact she had a private email server in her basement, using national security secrets running through it, could have been hacked by the Russians, the Chinese, or two 18-year-olds on a toot (ph) wanting to have some fun.
You're looking at the -- at the man who introduced and fought on the floor as a freshman senator and passed the Welfare Reform Act of 1996 over two President Clinton vetoes.
We raised the military spending, took from entitlements, and raised domestic spending and the deficit will explode under this.
In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight.
And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.
Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on.
The NASDAQ stock index fell 80 percent.
That's 13,000 miles.
It's a 20 percent flat rate tax, it'll take a blowtorch to the -- to the IRS.
Fifteen out of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries.
The fact is, since then, many killings,murders, crime, drugs pouring across the border, are money going out and the drugs coming in.
And, the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a V.A.
And, whats happened since?
Im the only one thats reduced the size of government.
Now 29 states have done it, and tens of millions of dollars have gone to create a culture where more people, more babies are adopted.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion."
Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are.
The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico.
The number of women --
Everything from welfare reform, which was the largest, most significant accomplishment in the last 25 years for conservatism.
We raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college tuition.
In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe.
Well, first, since you mentioned Colorado, I just want to thank the people of Colorado, because four years ago you gave me the honor of winning the nomination out here in the state of Colorado and on a night we won three states, and it catapulted us to win 11 states, ultimately.
The Republican party, since I've been in the Senate, and since President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of being total obstructionists.
And that was the state of Texas.
That comes out to $12,500 for each one.
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my e-mails, asking that they be made public.
But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we won with 58 percent of the vote.
We're the third-highest- using solar power state.
We do have the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world.
I was appointed United States attorney on September 10, 2001.
Higher education, we have a TOPS program, where again, we will help if a student maintains a 20 ACT, 2.5 GPA, well pay for their tuition.
When I became governor, we had 25 years without ()migration.
In the 1990s -- and all due respect -- in the 1990s, when I had the Republican leadership and Wall Street spending billions of dollars in lobbying, when the Clinton administration, when Alan Greenspan said, "what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge," Bernie Sanders fought them, and helped lead the opposition to deregulation.
Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income.
Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime.
We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.
We now have more people working than ever before, earning a higher income than ever before.
I also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability, judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure.
I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus.
I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.
Well, first of all, I didn't say that the rate would be 10 percent.
And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.
Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems.
You make $10 billion, you pay a billion.
Remember, I said 2 percent.
And not only will I support it
We're going to bring jobs back from Japan, we're going to bring jobs back from China, we're going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they're moving it to Mexico.
And I hope people see it in my state, even in the big challenges I took on when I had over 100,000 protesters in and around our capital, trying to do what I thought was the right thing.
We have a $2,750 per person tax credit.
The Glass-Steagall was my very first vote, I'd just arrived, my dad had died in office, I was appointed to the office, it was my very first vote.
And now since this happened" -- it's up in the prison area -- "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns.
And the third was the recent deal allowing Iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon, which sent bad signals, bad body language into the region about whether we are acquiescing in Iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of the world.
I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.
We are leading from behind under the Obama-Clinton doctrine  Americas a great country.
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978.
I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon.
We've seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind.
We did that in a Blue State, we took the money and put it into women's health, so we did exactly what we're talking about here.
We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility
Weve done it 27 times since World War II.
It costs $22,500 a year
A lot of the B-52s were flying, weve only got 44 that are in service combat ready, and the fact is, most of them are older than me.
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years weve seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy.
I've created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect -- and actually some of these folks I really like a lot -- but I'm the only one that can say that.
And I warned at the time -- this was three and a half years ago -- I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists.
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history.
We can have solar panels on every home that are four times more efficient than today.
Were borrowing a million dollars a minute.
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars.
According to the economists -- who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying -- that $24 trillion -- we're very close -- that's the point of no return.
Were not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.
We need to get wages to go up, college more affordable... ...we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050.
Should we cut up the agreement immediately?
Out of hundreds of deals that Ive done, hundreds, on four occasions Ive taken advantage of the laws of this country, like other people.
When the Republicans -- when the Republicans in the Congress and some Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled veterans, for the so-called chained CPI, I founded a caucus called the Defending Social Security Caucus.
And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.
First of all, yes, we've stolen.
Just today -- just today, there was a new report that 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials, so that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face.
Well, Jake, I was named U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001.
But I do think the natural impulse on the left -- Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws.
Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years.
We got a nuclear arms deal, we got the Iranian sanctions, we got an ability to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in Afghanistan.
Planned Parenthood had better hope that Hillary Clinton wins this election, because I guarantee under President Jindal, January 2017, the Department of Justice and the IRS and everybody else that we can send from the federal government will be going in to Planned Parenthood.
If we had that kind of system in place, we wouldn't have the 11 million people we have now.
But I have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed (ph) a meeting with the Chinese and got them to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that they'd ever joined.
Sixty-three percent of the American people didn't vote, Anderson.
More people to earn higher wages?
And the shooting in Virginia Tech in '07, this individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals who were not allowed to share the information.
As a result, eight credit upgrades; as a result, a top ten state for private sector job creation.
This was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago, and it has not been adequately, you know, revealed to the public what's actually going on.
The smallest Navy since 1915.
Youre seeing the big health insurance companies fold up.
I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time, the worst technology recession in 25 years.
We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
And as president, I intend to sign as my very first order in office the -- an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
Two of them were among the most highly decorated -- they weren't allowed on a military base to have guns.
With all due respect, Mr. Trump, we've been talking about illegal immigration for 25 years.
The idea of 401(k)s. I have a small business that I set up.
First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people.
We are in the process of reducing our defense spending by half.
Never been done before, never been done since.
But -- hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I used the law four times and made a tremendous thing.
My gosh, half the time, it was with the federal government who apparently never understood --
Thousands.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're (inaudible).
I would have never released the sanctions before there was consistent evidence of compliance.
We have the highest incarceration rates in the world.
We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in -- in -- in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again.
We're borrowing a million dollars a minute.
She's raised three kids, five great grandkids, and she's put up with me.
What I have discussed a number of times is the idea that when we create diversity programs that include everyone, quote, "of color," other than whites, struggling whites like the families in the Appalachian mountains, we're not being true to the Democratic Party principle of elevating the level of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who happen to be have -- by culture, by the way.
It took -- it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k).
I still remember, as a kid, tying a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of my house during the 444 days that Iran held 52 Americans hostage.
If we want to create jobs for the folks that you're talking about, who are having trouble getting off government benefits, primarily because of their low skill level, there is no better way -- it's worked for 100 years in America -- putting people back to work in manufacturing is it.
I would also look at what were doing at the federal level and put in place what Israel has done, a one federal agency dealing with cyber security and charged with working across the aisles to make sure we have the best technology.
Weve had the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression.
And Secretary, I was proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions of savings for families.
The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates.
I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth.
We are the only major country.
Im talking about $2,750 per person.
And I went there, and for 16 years, I fought the insiders and was able to get things done.
My dad came home from serving in the Army after having lost his father, worked in the Breyers ice cream plant in Newark, New Jersey.
And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent.
And Mexico's going to pay for the wall because Mexico -- I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders -- but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.
Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars.
We are on track to have the smallest Army since 1940.
In 1950, there were 16 workers for every Social Security recipient.
And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.
When Carly says the revenues went up, that's because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.
But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount up pretty quickly.
I represented Wall Street, as a senator from New York, and I went to Wall Street in December of 2007 -- before the big crash that we had -- and I basically said, "cut it out!
An earlier version of this transcript misquoted Bernie Sanders as saying, "And over the years, I have strongly avoided instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole."
I wouldnt have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it  I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them.
I also wrote and passed the best piece of veterans education legislation in history, the Post 9/11 G.I.
$5 billion Web site.
If you just cut their income tax, there isn't much income tax to cut.
Well, I turned 13 years old two days before Ronald Reagan was first elected.
And what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education regardless of the income of their family.
It'll make wages go up in America $250 for every year...
Ive been to the border with Governor Abbott in Texas and others, seeing the problems that they have there.
The president has done an executive order with respect to illegal immigration that is illegal.
Thousands of manufacturing jobs for a rule the Obama administration, own EPA has said will have a marginal impact on climate change.
Every major competitor for the United States manufacturing dollar has one of those banks.
I voted to make sure that Osama bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan.
And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.
We privatized or closed 9 of our 10 charity hospitals.
We're a country of laws, Bill.
Ive introduced a five-year balanced budget.
Were a top ten state for private sector job creation.
In 20 years, there are two.
And I think that the record of the governor of the last 14 years of the 12th largest economy in the world is just the medicine America is looking for.
There are more terrorist organizations with safe havens to attack the American homeland than any time since 9/11.
But Ive talked to the climatologists of the world, and 90 percent of them are telling me that greenhouse gas effect is real.
In 2009
Well, I wouldn't change the $10 bill, I'd change the $20.
We were the only state to appropriate money for crisis pregnancy centers.
We have to repair American credibility after we told the world that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which he didn't.
One of the greatest -- one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was -- were the vaccines, particularly for smallpox.
So were five times more efficient at producing goods here as far as the environment is concerned.
A state like New Jersey, with lots of Democrats, but still we cut taxes, we balanced budgets.
And so the federal government should have laws, tax laws, regulatory laws and, yes, finance laws.
I voted against it.
We even had warnings about the Boston Marathon bombers, and yet the dots weren't connected.
That happened to be 41 and 43.
Well, let me tell you one thing that I am the only guy: The only guy that has consistently fought the Clinton machine every election I was ever in over the past 26 years.
The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the joint chiefs.
My view right now -- and always has been -- is that when you have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive immigration reform, we need a path toward citizenship, we need to take people out of the shadows.
We're going to do a tax cut for all Americans.
I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble.
It had missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.
The middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing.
Ronald Reagan wasn't just a conservative Republican, he was an eternal optimist in the American people.
I wouldve a whole lot rather had Carly Fiorina over there doing our negotiation than John Kerry.
In my own state, for example, we launched an investigation, asked the FBI to cooperate.
Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, theyre the ones that are struggling.
It wasn't a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton.
And so much of what we did -- to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups -- can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?
He's a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome.
And it's why I've continued to focus on the fact that we need to declare war on the four big cost drivers because 80 percent of all medical costs in this country are chronic disease.
I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won.
We are eviscerating our military.
In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws, which I supported and implemented.
Megyn, of course its an ideological problem, thats one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they dont use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans.
And it wasn't until then that the Republican Party started joining in.
In 8 years weve never raised taxes.
It's coming from more than Mexico.
We cannot allow Hillary Clinton to take us down this path towards socialism, further down this path.
Bring us to a 350 ship Navy again, and modernize the Ohio class of submarines, and bring our Air Force back to 2,600 aircraft that are ready to go.
ICE tells them to release these people, 67,000 criminals released... ...on to our property, it's ridiculous.
San Francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989.
On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent.
We're reducing taxes to 15 percent.
He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate.
We're going to combine all commercial activity in business into one place in the tax code and charge it 15 percent, which is going to suddenly make us competitive with the rest of the world.
I am proud that, along with Senator Barbara Boxer, a few years ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called for a tax on carbon....and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively.
If we were to expand Medicaid, for every uninsured person we would cover, we'd kick more than one person out of private insurance or remove their opportunity to get private insurance.
It's also true that the man that led my firing, Tom Perkins, just took --
... of $50 billion... ... believe me the world is peanuts by comparison.
Nobody in this country is on Social Security because they made the decision when they were starting work at 14 that they wanted to trust some of their money with the government.
Half of American seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check.
But we saved lives and we gave our city a better future, improving police and community relations every single day that I was in office.
He's number 11, he's got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway.
Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through, and that's exactly what happened.
71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service.
We took on the big government union bosses, the big government special interests, many of whom came in from Washington, to spend millions of dollars to try and take me out because we stood up to them, we didn't back down in any of those instances.
It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon.
No, that was another 99 to one vote for the Patriot Act, and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what we've always done to tap phones which always required a warrant.
I have a big company with thousands and thousands of employees.
No, I would keep  first, yes, but what I would do, I would lower the tax on manufacturing to the lowest in the developed world, 12 percent.
I understand both of these issues, how to build the economy and doing that as a governor who'd built jobs, had cut taxes and also a governor who understands foreign-policy, and that's why I entered this race.
Barack Obama's administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already in Iraq.
Because I have used the laws of this country just like the greatest people that you read about every day in business have used the laws of this country, the chapter laws, to do a great job for my company, for myself, for my employees, for my family, et cetera.
But the average person takes out about $350,000.
What I mean is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest.
He said, Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitions
I spent years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Navy -- in the Reagan administration.
We sent our Texas ranger recon teams.
That's what the federal courts have said; what Snowden did showed that the American government was acting illegally for the Fourth Amendment.
This is an issue where, we're talking about my state, it's thousands of manufacturing jobs.
We're rebuilding many countries.
Tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants.
My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.
Twenty-five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close.
Anna, I have put forward a plan -- and I'm the only candidate, I believe, in either party to do this -- to move America forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
In July of 2004, I came out strongly against the war with Iraq, because it was going to destabilize the Middle East.
Heres the truth, of all these folks talking, Im the only one that has cut the size of government.
I just have to answer one thing that Senator Webb said about the Iran deal, because I'm a strong proponent of what President Obama -- and he said that because of that the Iran deal that enabled Russia to come in.
I also represented a so-called war criminal, an African American Marine who was wounded -- who was convicted of murder in Vietnam, for six years.
You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesnt even own a single store?
I'm the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that capacity I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war, and I will do everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in Iraq, the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country.
Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force, done something to Assad -- if he had gone in with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world.
Ten thousand of them sit in our prisons.
We've saved billions of dollars.
Weve got a trillion dollars of student debt, and counting, and he wants to exempt certain schools from the same oversight he wants to apply only to the for-profit market.
Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a (inaudible) place.
Secretary Clinton, Russia, they're challenging the U.S. in Syria.