Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East.
They all have jobs.
When did we beat Japan at anything?
And he says, the president's appointee, that crime is going up because of this.
And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue.
It will take an extremely arduous vote in Congress, followed by two-thirds of the states, and if that doesn't work to amend the Constitution, then it is a long, arduous process in court.
They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken.
And some of them are like third world countries.
Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker.
That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence.
And there's a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them.
And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn't have that.
Well, what we have to stop and think about is that we have weakened ourselves militarily to such an extent that if affects all of our military policies.
I have a five point economic plan, because this inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points.
Middle class in this country is collapsing.
He could have raised all the issues that he has raised.
What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection.
I'm not against medical marijuana.
This was not a subject that was on anybodys mind until I brought it up at my announcement.
And when the people of Iowa found that out, I went to No.
And, Jim, I have to tell you something, talking about cyber security, Hillary Clinton put a server, an unsecure server, in her home as Secretary of State.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product -- a sign of strength, right?
That's not a Democratic point.
None of us are a self-professed socialist.
Now hundreds of companies I've opened.
And I ran and promised people that together we could turn that around.
The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too.
That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too.
They just built a hotel in Syria.
For example, do I think that a gun shop in the state of Vermont that sells legally a gun to somebody, and that somebody goes out and does something crazy, that that gun shop owner should be held responsible?
My kids had all of their vaccines, and even if the science doesn't say bunching them up is a problem, I ought to have the right to spread out my vaccines out a little bit at the very least.
We have massive wealth and income inequality.
That's a point.
I was a military reformer.
Because a lot of people said, "He'll never run.
On these videos, Planned Parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies.
Well, first of all, I recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem.
When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best.
And I have never advocated that.
A majority of the men and women on this stage have previously and publicly embraced amnesty.
They are employing themselves, they are potentially employing others.
As a matter of fact, if you're Hispanic or African-American in Texas, you have the number one high school graduation rates in America.
Except the reporters, because theyre a very dishonest lot, generally speaking, in the world of politics, they didnt cover my statement the way I said it.
We build our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life altogether.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old.
It hasn't been this bad since the 1920s.
He hit oil.
They come from another country and they're immediately sent out.
They built a hotel.
In Louisiana, instead we're helping people getting better paying jobs so they can provide for their own health care.
We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us.
People are frustrated.
My goodness, I'm still upset with the Saudi Arabians for everything they do over there.
A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty.
That's long-term debt, very low interest rates.
We do it in New Jersey.
Our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs.
Now, heres the point, whose fault is it that the system is screwed up?
Most of the income in this country is made by people at the top who get dividends and  and capital gains.
They're bringing drugs.
And I put forth an immigration policy that is as strong in favor of the folks who are struggling in America the most than anybody else.
They've become rich.
Our generals are retiring because they dont want to be part of this, and at the same time, our enemies are increasing.
It's the strongest pro-worker immigration plan.
We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it.
You know, we didn't start out four years ago at the top of the heap.
We wont even give them offensive weapons.
I'm very proud that over my almost 30 years of public service, I have had no scandals.
They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do?
I wrote "The Art of the Deal".
But many, many people did.
I'm in competition with them.
We were behind where we were today.
I don't recall the Sun -- in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him.
I say not in a braggadocious way, I've made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world, and I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again.
I am the only candidate on this stage who has never supported amnesty and, in fact, who helped lead the fight to stop a massive amnesty plan.
He could have gotten all of the protections of being a whistleblower.
They're rapists.
The difference is, when somebody else uses those laws, nobody writes about it.
Well, I would shut down -- make -- I'd shut down what exists right now is that virtually every telephone call in this country ends up in a file at the NSA.
Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work.
We feel like despite our generosity, were being taken advantage of.
We owe Japan more than that.
You see every other major country saying to moms that, when you have a baby, we're not gonna separate you from your newborn baby, because we are going to have -- we are gonna have medical and family paid leave, like every other country on Earth.
But, you know, the fact of the matter is, we have extremely well-documented proof that there's no autism associated with vaccinations.
The left is trying to turn the American dream into the European nightmare.
There are lids on people's aspirations.
We have to offer a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in serious policy, which I've laid out.
That's what these videos show Planned Parenthood doing.
What happened with Atlantic City is very, very disgraceful.
They're bringing crime.
A lot of people up there can't get jobs.
But also the biggest people (ph) -- now I've used that to my advantage as a business man, for my family, for myself.
Corporate America is doing it as well.
First of all, John got lucky with a thing called fracking, OK?
I mean, the fences that were there were not manned, and those are the kind of fences when I was a kid that would barely slow us down.
It's not theirs anymore.
But honestly, if you're a small business owner today you are being crushed.
He said, "we don't have leverage with China to get a better deal on Iran because we need them to lend us money to continue operating our government."
Came out great.
In fact, frankly, he's complaining about the fact that we're losing some of the most talented people.
But we're becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything.
They're not sending you.
It's true, and these are the best and the finest.
The people that Washington leaves behind.
They stole it.
Saudi Arabia is not accepting one.
On welfare.
Its important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clintons gonna be the next president, because shes been in office and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight.
I'm also a little concerned about how they're bunched up.
They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us.
It got stolen from them.
And people -- and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico.
I think the government is involved in our e-mails; is involved in our websites.
So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement.
This is a great country, but we have many, many serious problems.
Not the brave men like Jim who fought in that war, but the policy which got us involved in that war.
Now, I'm the only person that's put out a detailed plan on how to deal with entitlements.
And they send the bad ones over because they dont want to pay for them.
That when you look around the world, you see every other major country providing health care to all people as a right, except the United States.
What Hillary Clinton's going to say, and has said before is, she wants to raise Social Security taxes.
I'll do it.
Here's the way forward: First, we must -- we must secure our border, the physical border, with -- with a wall, absolutely.
It doesn't exist, folks.
Beyond that, the other facilities, we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them.
Well, you just -- you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all.
It seems to me that instead of building more jails and providing more incarceration, maybe -- just maybe -- we should be putting money into education and jobs for our kids.
He could have been a whistleblower.
He got lucky with fracking.
So we are not going to destroy our economy.
You know, take the trade deal.
They beat us all the time.
It's virtually useless.
That's a fact.
I governed as a conservative, and I govern effectively.
But it is true that we are probably giving way too many in too short a period of time.
We get Bergdahl.
What I'm talking about is this, our middle class is shrinking.
And the Mexican government is much smarter, much sharper, much more cunning.
This country is running out of time.
So yeah, someone who makes more money... ...numerically, it's gonna be higher.
This is the most generous country in the world when it comes to immigration.
The government stole it, and spent it a long time ago...
This was a large and complicated bill.
I did say it was a mistake.
Not because of a government program, but because of fracking, private sector creation
The Oregon study showed this.
We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather, because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world, absolutely.
I have a great, great company.
The government has lied to you and they have stolen from you.
We get a traitor.
They cite Obamacare.
So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal's even better.
Yuma County, Arizona.
That, alone, should disqualify her from being President of the United States.
And they're tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world.
I think we have to think through this war on drugs... ...which has done an enormous amount of damage.
But I will -- but I will tell you this, the socialist says they're going to pay for everything and give you everything for free, except they don't say they're going to raise it through taxes to 90 percent to do it.
And it's about time people in America stand up and take note of this.
The choice between a weak economy and a strong environment is a false choice, that is not the choice I'll offer America.
The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House and that's why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017.
When I was a young man -- I'm not a young man today.
Our  our friends cant trust us anymore.
When it comes to fossil fuels, we're going to find more here and use less.
And, here's the difference between me and Hillary Clinton.
Some of us have other solutions.
But we stuck to our message.
When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo?
These are horrifying.
But, I said, "This is going to be an election that's based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people.
It primary is built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit.
Makes it a whole lot easier for them to want to go somewhere else.
I'm Donald Trump.
Enough of the e-mails.
It is a disaster.
Companies should, if they want to attract the best workers, provide a good set of benefits.
Yesterday, the president stunningly admitted this.
This is really about the survival of Western civilization.
We need to rethink our criminal justice system, we we've got a lot of work to do in that area.
They dont want to take care of them.
When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest.
Well, I wish you would have asked that question years ago when they broke it.
Let the states do this.
When I use it, they say, Trump, Trump, Trump.
The answer is no.
They are coming from Asia to have babies here, and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby.
They're concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back.
And why?
Whoever heard of this?
It isn't there anymore, Mike.
The United States.
Well, I've taken responsibility for it.
That's right.
I mean, let me be honest with the people who are watching at home.
I want Republicans to embrace innovation and technology.
You'll create a much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won't in debt the next generation with recourse debt on their backs.
I am my own man.
But we also need to have an entry/exit tracking system.
And Im very proud of the job I did.
Total propaganda.
Thats what is happening.
And some, I assume, are good people.
But if you look at working men and women.
But not for us.
For once, let's do that, and stop trying to give them some kind of fantasy that's never going to come true.
We also need a mandatory e-verify system.
That's the good news.
And so, while he would like to use a sympathetic story to back up his point, it doesn't work.
You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it's virtually useless.
It's absolutely right.
But if you look at the Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no comparison.
That is who I'm fighting for.
Over time, we're going to become energy independent.
That's an interesting question.
We need to make America fair again for all businesses, but especially those being run by small business owners.
I have the courage to take the long-term view, and I've shown good judgment.
Is it the recipients, or is it the government?
That is total propaganda, and this is what happens in our society.
That is what I could do for the country.
So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I'll do.
Wait for what?
That was my view then.
They don't know what they're doing.
Let's talk about something that happened this week in the news.
Why dont we  if we really want to tackle environmental problems, global warming, what we need to do is take those jobs from China and bring them back here to the United States, employ workers in this country.
I have high ethical standards.
And thats why you need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration.
We are going the way of Europe.
But what I know to be true is that the next president of the United States is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation.
They go to Yale.
They go to Princeton.
They go to Harvard.
They don't know what they're doing."
So, what did we do?
But I agree with what Governor Kasich just said.
I've always been honest.
It happens to be Nevada, where we're having this debate.
Why don't you wait in line?
I was not at all.
I know why it exists.
This is much different.
There were provisions in it that I think made sense.
As to birthright citizenship... ...the truth is, you can't just wave your hands and say "the 14th Amendment is gonna go away."
I go around the country, talk to a whole lot of people.
Wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?
Absolutely, John.
They don't know if it worked.
I was not at all critical of him.
Someone who's going to stand up, and be very clear with our enemies as to the lines their going to draw and stand with them.
There is a better way to provide health care.
Thats what Im for.
That is unacceptable to me.
I also believe we need a fence.
You know, we know that if you are learning, you're gonna change your position.
Number one, he won't want to give up his lifestyle."
I think it was a bad deal, but I would have voted for it for a very simple reason.
But it's not just government surveillance.
We need to repeal and replace Dodd-Frank.
Don't believe the 5.6.
But I'm going to tell you the truth.
I don't.
So, I don't see any purpose in having that.
No, that's -- you're wrong.
You would say maybe two, maybe four?
I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition.
WALKER No, no...
You know?
Believe me, that is why Ohio is doing well.
Thank you.
Of course not.
Now, what we need to do is look at something that actually works.
But I guess I'm supposed to come out great.
We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years.
Number -- and that is important for you to know.
The American people want to know whether we're going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of Citizens Union.
Well, that's easy to answer.
The middle class -- Anderson, and let me say something about the media, as well.
They want it to be an issue that they can use.
And I think there would have been a positive response to that.
So, let's stop fooling around about this, let's tell people the truth.
You know what that is?
Maybe theres something going on, like we dont have the right match, right?
We made accommodation to the Fort Hood shooter to let him grow a beard.
Well, you ask about how we fund it.
And people said "you can't win, you can't change the culture."
But getting back to Martha's question about how we end dependency, do we have to have a cultural change?
You want to talk about moral authority.
John, I'll tell you something.
Probably, I don't know -- you people write the stuff.
Because I think it is incredibly important.
Let's talk about the real issues facing America.
Don't believe it.
How great is that?
Nobody can solve it like me.
...By the way, I agree with -- with what Chris is saying, but, I will say this.
We need new leadership, and we need action.
Let me give you the bad news.
So I would say, "Congratulations.
I promise you, if you make me your President, I will save Social Security because I know why it exists.
Think about that.
Can you believe this?
I don't know where you... And if I could say just one thing.
That the key to poverty is families.
My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One.
She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements."
Well, Im pro-life, Ive always been pro-life, and Ive got a position that I think is consistent with many Americans out there in that
Bush is totally in favor of Common Core.
If you saw that blimp that got cut loose from Maryland today, it's a perfect example of government.
As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement.
We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said.
And yes, I was fired over a disagreement in the boardroom.
Therefore, we need more states, cities, and the federal government to begin to address this so that we don't have this terrible result that Senator Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our prisons for nonviolent, low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana.
So, as we look ahead, if you're going to make those poor judgment calls, a critical time in our history, we just finished with the Vietnam era, getting back into another quagmire -- if you're looking ahead, and you're looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into Iraq when there was no real evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -- I know because I did my homework, and, so, that's an indication of how someone will perform in the future.
We use natural gas.
I have been proud and privileged to serve as first lady, as a senator from New York, and as secretary of state.
And I began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in.
He's saying he'll send the federal government in, and he will enforce the federal law.
Not  not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time.
We should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and -- and parental leave -- family and parental leave to all of our families.
That's why I'll enforce the federal law, while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation, which we've done in New Jersey.
Three of her seven siblings died in childhood.
And the most important fight we're going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to privatize it.
We have been talking about it for 25 years.
If you're running for president of the United States and you do not understand that we cannot defend this nation without more of our soldiers over there, you are not ready for this job.
We called in, we said, that's it.
That means that a small child like Morgan Hintz (ph) that has seizures is day, is failing on non-traditional medications, is not allowed to use cannabis oil.
Yes, well, it does.
Ronald Reagan said trust, but verify.
This is recreational use of marijuana.
You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes -- cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss.
What Id like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state.
Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football?
Youre not solving problems for workers in America, who have seen their wages flatline and have been disaffected enough to leave the workplace.
There are people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
It was 25 years ago, and I came by defeating the Democratic incumbent.
Israel is not one of those.
They went to France.
Theyre fed up.
Stimulating the economy -- because it's tethered down right now with so many regulations... That's not true.
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.
We sent our parks and wildlife wardens.
My wife, Kelly, and I have been married for nearly 25 years, and I spend my days defending the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
We have arrived at a point in our nation's history where the potential of this nation and too many Americans is being crushed by the weight, the power, the cost, the complexity, the ineptitude, the corruption of the federal government, and only someone who will challenge the status quo of Washington, D.C. can lead the resurgence of this great nation.
They have to have some legal basis and precedence for being able to follow the law instead of making the law up, and my goal is -- in appointing Supreme Court justices, would be to point -- to appoint justices who would follow the law.
The Democrats can't even come up with one.
Unless you've become discouraged about our gridlock in Congress, talk to our young people under 30, because you'll never find among them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples.
not only to the U.S., but to Israel and our allies, because we would have the most incredible well-trained, well-equipped, well- prepared military in the history of mankind.
ISIL is trying to create themselves into a new state.
I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed.
And when we live by those laws and we treat everybody equally under the law, that's when people feel good about being Americans.
That's true.
I know that we are at greater risk today than at any time since then of another attack.
You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesnt suppress wages and kill jobs.
He took his life three years into this.
And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president  and I hope to be that president  will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.
Secondly, we are rehabbing the drug-addicted.
Jeb said... ... that they come into our country as an act of love.
It wasn't that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, it's that it was the easier choice.
Bobby, youre talking about your tax cuts.
They are ripping us.
And then since then, Ive very much evolved.
You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other people's money.
And that's the way my parents came legally in 1956.
Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago.
It costs me $3.
The agreement was terrible.
And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed.
Community- based businesses and farms are getting crushed.
You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities.
To the 1 percent who have been fighting this war for over a decade, I'd try my best to be a commander-in-chief worthy of your sacrifice.
I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget.
I will say this, coming from the position that I've come from, from a military family, with my brother a marine, my son was a marine in Iraq, I served as a marine, spending five years in the Pentagon, I am comfortable that I am the most qualified person standing up here today to be your commander-in-chief.
There is no money in the Medicare account.
Why can't we defund Planned -- put it in a spending bill.
It was a position of weakness and I think it encouraged the acts that we've seen in the past several weeks.
But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks."
You know, we could give you another example -- the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed.
And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA.
And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where theyre sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet.
It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space.
Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today -- taxes in the future than they're paying today.
The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016.
Im the leading voice in America for not arming the allies of ISIS.
I joined the Bloomberg Foundation because of Mike Bloombergs shared commitment for meaningful education reform.
We're going to have people come in, but they're coming in legally.
My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve.
Millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to fund super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the interests of working people.
We have this enormous mismatch because we have smaller and smaller families.
I stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that I've gotten involved in this race is because I'm very concerned about the future of our children, and the direction of our country is one that does not portend well, unless we, the people, intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle.
Every company, Chris can tell you, every company virtually in Atlantic City went bankrupt.
He did, he did.
You know, the President who called ISIS the JV squad said I needed to bone up.
In terms of the corporate tax.
Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable and available to businesses and individuals in our state.
So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have laws for prosecutors to take that on.
And that's why I've offered a specific program to the people of America tonight to address the fundamental problem of getting our country growing again, getting our economy growing, wages up, opportunities for people.
The way that folks can get better-paying jobs with better benefits is we have a growing economy.
We talked about it in 2004.
They were smarter than our leaders.
I didn't inherit any money.
Now unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice, but he did say that... And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word.
Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.
And a lot of the people are getting killed are members of gangs inside our urban areas.
They forced Obamacare and socialism down our throats.
I believe in equal pay for equal work for women, but I also believe it's about time we had paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world.
We have gutted our ability to detect the next attack.
And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican nomination.
I even had a primary for my reelection in 2006.
pipeline even after shes left?
But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in.
Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods.
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves.
We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger.
This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we've always said this country is all about.
If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on.
And its only by the blood of Jesus Christ that Ive been redeemed from my sins.
John, our budget is balanced.
I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able to buy in to the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act.
They told us they'd left for the airport; we found out they were having a secret meeting.
It was 99 to one and I was maybe the one.
We pay federal taxes.
In fact, it's the chief argument by democrats against many of the different flat tax proposals.
There are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur.
I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman.
We are bringing out huge turnouts, and creating excitement all over this country.
We need to begin by undoing -- I would begin by undoing a whole set of things that President Obama has done, whether it's illegal amnesty or this latest round of EPA regulations.
Jeb Bush says we've got to be willing to lose the primary in order to win the general.
He came back later and he said he misspoke.
I just want to remind you, people paid their money.
Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him.
Are you not running?
It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, "Death to all Americans," and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, "Can we meet ya half way?"
No country has -- is a country without defining its borders.
Not only do the drugs damage them, we damage them again by incarcerating them and then preventing them from getting employment over time.
I will veto any budget that doesn't fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender.
We started a national debate on it.
We don't have a health care crisis in America, we have a health crisis.
Is Ronald Reagan evolved on many issues.
Today, I'm 60, I'm not married, I don't have any kids.
That's what the Fourth Amendment says.
And what I would do is put in place a policy where if we know a company, say a Chinese company, is hacking into American companies, stealing trade secrets, as we know they do every day, we will retaliate against that company and say that that company is not going to be allowed to continue to do trade with the United States.
Since he brought me up, do I not get to respond?
It turns out some dot wasn't connected, and so the first thing we have to do is make sure that everyone and every responsible agency is attuned to all of these possibilities and symptoms.
Ive got a proposal.
And I do think that the bilateral agreement that President Obama made with the Chinese was significant.
My own wife was two blocks from the Trade Center that day, at her office, having gone through it that morning.
They want to take away our gun rights under the Second Amendment.
I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places.
We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable cities in America, doing important things in terms of green building, architecture and design.
Jim Webb is right: Money is pouring in to this campaign through super PACs.
Of course, we have to support small and medium-sized businesses.
I'm running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama.
But in terms of shutting down the government, I don't think President Obama should choose to shut down the government simply to send taxpayer dollars to this group that has been caught, I believe, breaking the law, but also offending our values and our ethics.
We don't need Hillary Clinton's price controls for -- again, does anybody out there think that giving Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good idea, given how well they have done running the government?
That when we go to war, we don't fight with one arm tied behind our back, we fight all out to win, but then we come home.
So I will say this, though, Hugh was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names.
Earned success is so much more fulfilling than unearned success.
But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in that Democrat debate.
We mustnt become a cheaper version of the Democratic Party, a second liberal party.
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants.
I'm a businessman doing business transactions.
It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible.
We actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion, that we can not keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world.
And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster.
And until we deal with the health of Americans and do what we did with polio -- when I was a little kid, we eradicated it.
Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do.
There's never been a direct Supreme Court case on people who were here illegally, whether or not their kids are citizens.
What we need to do is take the rest of the federal entitlements, not just welfare, but food stamps and Medicaid and housing programs and do the same thing we did with welfare.
We created a climate where parental notification took place.
We have ISIS and al Qaeda attacking us.
And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home.
We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution.
That's why I'm missing votes.
And it's... Well, but all -- well, on a state level, a state as big as many countries in the world.
Weve got to unite our country again, because were stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided.
Not only will Americans be electing a new president next year, we also will be electing a world leader.
Every election we talk about Medicare and Social Security reform.
We've had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing.
Reagan did negotiate with the Soviets.
1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security interest of the United States.
It's because our Marines Corps is not ready to be deployed.
That's why I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, and I want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented children and others.
Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships.
After the election, he asked me to become Secretary of State....in the Situation Room, going over some very difficult issues.
It does.
We used to have victories, but we don't have them.
I had a casino company -- Caesars just filed for bankruptcy.
But let's just take a minute here and point out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National Committee.
The average American does not have that, and deserves the right to be able to protect their family.
And I had the good sense to leave Atlantic City, which by the way, Caesars just went bankrupt.
We don't get along with the heads of Mexico.
You spearheaded the reset with Russia.
When was the last time you heard China is killing us?
That, with all due respect, is nonsense.
And the Fed did act appropriately in reducing interest rates.
If I have a chance to lead this country, were going to reduce the deficit, shrink the government, lower the tax burden and govern the private sector because thats how you solve deficits.
Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the -- the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
And meanwhile, what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years.
And unfortunately, those few months gave us President Obama.
As far as being a Republican is concerned, I come from a place, New York City, which is virtually, I mean, it is almost exclusively Democrat.
And, they're successful at it, in Colorado and others states, the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated.
Former elected prosecutor, attorney general, governor, I was elected to all of those offices.
We allowed them -- we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria.
You know, we have the purveyors of hatred who take every single incident between people of two races and try to make a race war out of it, and drive wedges into people.
He says...
No, no, listen, everybody makes a mistake every once in a while, Jake, even George Shultz.
The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don't trust the media.
Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria?
Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state.
I'm not using donors.
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward.
I oppose the Iranian deal, and will vote against it.
They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.
We expand dramatically the number adoptions out of our foster care system.
Then I looked at Rubio.
We dont beat China in trade.
He supported him, publicly.
And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating.
Great state, great people.
It never happens.
Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout, and that is what happened last November.
That you've been -- system is being gamed, and that you're turning out to fall further and further behind.
These Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying.
I've heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 -- people here from this country out of this country, splitting families.
Saudi Arabia without us is gone.
Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the "Reagan Rule."
Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn't smile enough.
He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long.
Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage.
I'm here with my wife, Candy, of 40 years, and two of my sons, and their wives.
You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation.
We are running off a cliff.
But the bottom line is the states.
They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work.
The 14th Amendment says that "those who are here and under the jurisdiction."
The donor class feeds the political class who does the dance that the donor class wants.
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents.
He has gone to China.
Why not cut spending.
A person who, in fact, has a long experience in foreign-policy issues, which is different from many of the other governors and prospective governors who are running.
The number one candidate on the other side thought she was flat broke after her and her husband were in the White House for eight years.
We elected a Republican Congress to do this.
That were heating up the planet.
That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.
And I think the federal government has gone too far, I think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome, and really has been something that has really damaged our inner cities.
The problem is we never get it done.
We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.
We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isnt doing their job.
We're going to create a border.
The purpose of the military is kill people and break things.
Because there will be no effective efforts against climate change unless China and India join with the rest of the world.
You look at Egypt, probably the best relationship weve had in Israel, at least in my lifetime, incredibly important.
And we negotiated it.
Well, I'm surprised she says that, because California has had a paid leave program for a number of years.
And we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without, but safe from the enemies within.
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?"
Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently.
It's not that politicians are bad people, it's that they've been in that system forever.
Thanks to President Obama's leadership, it's now gone much further.
Their families are the victims too, their children are the victims too, and their employers are the victims also.
And, the fact is, none of them.
Imagine if you try to say that in a party thats gearing towards socialism, that wouldnt be welcome in todays Democratic Party.
But I absolutely believe that Israel is a priority to be able to fund and keep them strong and safe after eight years of this administration.
My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did.
And that's what that means if you're against allowing people use medical marijuana, you'll actually put them in jail.
You vote against us, you are out of your job."
I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back.
We need somebody ready to be commander-in-chief on day one, who understands there are no moderates in Iran, they've been killed a long time ago.
Through tax reform.
One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
I'm running.
We change the economy and the country.
I've got five grandkids.
On this stage -- on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious belief.
There is a bill sitting in the House that would actually pass and have us go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every dime of your money is being spent instead of only talking about how much more we're going to spend year after year after year.
But it's bigger than that.
We have a country of borders.
Ive never seen so many threats to our homeland than I do today.
Just for the record.
A lot of people are talking about defunding planned parenthood, as if thats a huge game changer.
Why not a balanced budget in the amendment to the Constitution, why not a super majority vote before  our taxes before they grow the government faster than the economy.
Imagine if he were alive today and if he was at that last Democratic debate.
My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug addiction.
There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner.
I was the governor during the 9/11 attack when the Pentagon was struck.
And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we've had a gigantic party.
Let me say this, Jake, is that while that may have been a fine idea that Dr. Carson had, these people were out to kill us.
He's the one that did Bergdahl.
If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.
Were not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day.
Since he has changed his mind on amnesty, on health care and on abortion, I would just ask, what are the principles by which he will govern?
Four times, Ive taken advantage of the laws.
These are drags on the economy, it's a deliberate drag.
Why should we trust you to manage the finances --
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people.
They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world.
So...We've laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all types of energy.
measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion.
We grew up, my sister and myself, in the back of that bar, in one room with my mom, my dad and my sister, who is nine years younger.
Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I'm not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they've all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit.
Who has the tenacity and the ability and the proven track record of getting that done?
It is a unique nation in all of human history and on the face of the planet, because here, our founders believed that everyone has a right to fulfill their potential and that that right --they called it life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness -- comes from God and cannot be taken away by government.
But then his poll numbers tanked.
Well, since were usually in the Super Bowl, the Pittsburgh Steelers  Steeler Nation, anybody?
I said, "Is he intelligent?"
Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today.
But if you look at the deals we make, whether its the nuclear deal with 24 hour periods  and by the way, before you get to the 24 hours, you have to go through a system.
Well, as you know, I'm a former elected prosecutor, a former elected attorney general, trained at the University of Virginia in constitutional law, and I don't believe in litmus tests except this.
He's trying to destroy NATO.
My patients are beside themselves.
We have a president -- and Hillary Clinton was a part of this, by the way, who has made political decisions for our men and women in uniform.
But when you have people that are cutting Christians heads off, when you have a world that the border and at so many places, that it is medieval times, weve never  it almost has to be as bad as it ever was in terms of the violence and the horror, we dont have time for tone.
I chaired the National Commission on Homeland Security Committee for United States.
Yes, our allies are not perfect.
A lot of people forget this, but just a few days before that election 1980, he was behind in the polls.
And a lot of them are mentally incapacitated.
I don't think it's a war on women for all of us as Americans to stand up and stop harvesting organs from little babies.
It regulates schools that belong to local communities.
Dividing the country.
The reason we know that it is is because of the DNA schedule that we now have clear scientific evidence on.
You know how much money we spent on polio last year in America?
We have make the decision now in Syria, should we topple Assad?
My son Jim fought as an infantry Marine on the bloody streets of Ramadi.
I hire people, they do a Web site.
This is the year 2015.
I will take care of women.
I've a bill to fix Social Security.
And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others.
My position is exactly the same.
We owned a liquor store, restaurant, bar and we lived in the back.
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding.
If we dont deal with this problem, it will bankrupt our country, or lead to massive tax increases, neither one that we want in this country.
Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party?
According to the generals that I know and trust, this air campaign will not destroy ISIL.
If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune.
One of the things that troubles me about the Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts.
The president of the United States admitting that he's weakening our government's position, our foreign policy standing, because he can't control spending in D.C..
We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime.
I am totally in favor of vaccines.
No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue.
There is no money in the Social Security account.
Are we better off today than we were then?
There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and America as the great Satan.
Domestically, we would be operating under a tax system that eliminated the IRS.
They still haven't recovered.
The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms.
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.
But Ive also gone to Chicago.
If you're fed up with Washington, if you're looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, I'm the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back.
I'm tested.
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in -- in -- in this country -- I'm a -- I was opposed to the decision, but we -- you can't just say, "well, they -- gays can't get married now."
What are we doing?
Every person on this stage who has been a governor will tell that you the biggest fight they had was not the other party.
And I also understand that.
They come up to my office.
If you're running for president of the United States and you don't understand that we need more American ground forces in Iraq and that America has to be part of a regional ground force that will go into Syria and destroy ISIL in Syria, then you're not ready to be commander in chief.
Youre talking about payroll taxes that fund programs.
And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states.
Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months.
Jake, Jake... Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and I've listened to several folks saying, "Well, gosh, if they cheat, we'll act."
I'm really rich.
I'm not using the lobbyists.
He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates.
Check the record.
I came to Washington, D.C. in 1990.
We could arm the Kurds.
And then he went to prosecutors like us, and he said, never again.
Well, I would begin by reminding people that at this point in previous presidential elections, Jimmy Carter couldn't win, Ronald Reagan couldn't win, Bill Clinton couldn't win, and neither could've Barack Obama.
The number two guy went to the Soviet Union on his honeymoon, and I dont think he ever came back.
I'm tired of the hyphenated Americans and the division.
They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn't be done.
I think Snowden played a very important role in educating the American people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are being undermined.
Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them.
Mine actually cuts the payroll tax, and I think it would spread the tax cut across all socioeconomic levels, and would allow then it to be something that would be broadly supported by the public in an election.
If you go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind.
We're going to cut costs.
All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat.
This power -- we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level.
You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels.
As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have -- it's fine.
Do you believe that a person, before they're deprived of life and liberty, should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law?
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
We'll have a country -- they'll come back, legally.
And I think also that Ronald Reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads.
And in the Patriot Act, section 215 started to get broadened too far.
That hurts working men and women in this country.
They;re gone.
the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem.
I'd probably send a few thousand more troops into Germany.
I am proud that last year we helped change the law.
The reality is it's a bad deal on day one, and it's a bad deal because this president has allowed Iran to go closer, and closer.
We have a stock market that is so bloated.
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, they're no better.
If you're not willing to do that, nobody wants to do it, but if you're not willing to gradually raise the age, you're not serious about fixing either one of them.
As to the 11 million, I want to talk about fixing the problem.
That is the fight we have to have, and we have to undo a whole set of things that President Obama has done that get at the heart of his disrespect and disregard for too many Americans.
Then, I took on the big government union bosses, and we won.
Let me set the record straight on a couple of things.
Negotiate a reasonable minimum wage, and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America.
You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country.
There are no shortage of breweries around the United States of America.
You get a lot of them that are overrated.
We have got to destroy their training camps and recruiting centers.
Many are in this building.
Well, first of all the -- the plan gives people the option of -- of opting out.
We have an immigration policy that Senator Graham supported that brings in even more low-wage workers into this country.
Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league.
People pay for the medical care; they pay for their Social Security.
But if were going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative.
We're going to have too many people in the cart rather than pulling the cart.
We havent had real growth.
We either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners, or we use every resource available to us to destroy... ... them first.
Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do.
One as a marine officer in Iraq, one as an army officer in Afghanistan.
We have artificially low interest rates.
We have not provided them.
My record as a pro-life governor is not in dispute.
So just by definition, if you're -- and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they -- they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration.
You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes.
The party is over to all the dictators.
I've watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out -- out in the -- in the cold.
And that is that we need to separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money, from the commercial banking -- namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you're using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived.
They have to come into this country legally.
And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.
Second of all, I heard the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why we should overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the -- I would urge people to go to berniesanders.com, hear what I said in 2002.
Mrs. Clinton -- if you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to name a accomplishment of Mrs. Clinton's.
We need to proudly say were willing to cut taxes, shrink government, grow the American economy.
Just because he says it doesn't make it true.
Each and every one of the people in this country whos watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again.
And he actually said that.
You're talking about groups of people trying to overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS.
And meanwhile, what has happened?
Health savings accounts are something that we introduced.
But in 2015, we have a very different economy.
I said, "Hank, your guys -- you come from Goldman Sachs.
Americans are looking for somebody that's going to give them, and there is a place in this country over the last eight years in particular that talked about hope every day, and they didn't just talk about it, they delivered it.
The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety.
One second.
They're going to build in Mexico.
Looking at both of them, and evaluating them both, and I'm talking to the American people because one of the things we must recognize is that this country is of, for, and by the people.
We need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of new American immigrants.
He did.
Im not going to name their names because Im not going to embarrass, but virtually every person that you read about on the front page of the business sections, theyve used the law.
For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days.
Make the CEOs pay their same tax rates the way the rest of us do.
And theyre wondering, maybe they should come illegally.
The world is dramatically different.
And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back.
Much of the discussion is centered over whether or not the different tax plans help, or affect the middle class.
For both of them you have to gradually raise the age.
And I know my Republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue, but the world's financial crisis was on -- the world's financial markets system was on the verge of collapse.
If only you look at the big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees.
I get along with all of them, and I did a damn good job in doing it.
We have some remarkable people, and, in fact, not only are we the A team; we even have our own Mr. T, who doesn't mind saying about others, "you're a fool."
We could also, to Senator Rubio's point, give the Egyptians what they've asked for, which is intelligence.
We're still paying the repercussions of a bad decision.
We can put America back on track on a growth level and a growth rate that we've never seen in the history of this country.
Because if you do, you're going to do more than defund Planned Parenthood.
We use solar power.
Religious conscience is -- is -- is a first freedom.
The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.
I've had the growth code (ph) there for about five years, and it's this specific program.
When you actually have to be responsible for doing this, you can do it, and we did it, for seven years in my office, respecting civil liberties and protecting the homeland.
Americans are tired of hearing this debate -- want to go to, what are you going to do about illegal immigration?
I mean, I ask that with all due respect.
The war didn't work.
It's not about braggadocio, it is about challenging the status quo, solving problems, producing results.
It could have worked in a different age, which is the age youre talking about here.
Because Obama and Clinton policies, the United States is moving further and further into a decline.
Why wont the Republicans fight half as hard for freedom and opportunity?
Were flying B-52s.
Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy -- the biggest.
It only makes common sense.
But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which legislate.
And as long as they go through the legal process that our country requires, I respect that.
The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special.
According to U.S. intelligence, they've lied about who they're bombing.
Government income/revenues are too low.
Well, I was a conservative governor of Virginia, I governed that way, and that's my track record.
I didn't want guns.
It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio.
You know, it's interesting to me, Mr. Trump said that he heard Mr. Bush very clearly and what Mr. Bush said.
If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation.
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families.
I took on the Bush administration for the same thing.
It's their money.
And Lehman Brothers started it all.
We should be putting together a coalition of Arab countries who should be leading the effort.
So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out.
If you want someone that can actually take on the special interest of Washington, which you yourself said you were part of, using the system, we need somebody that will stand up and fight for average Americans to put them back in charge of their government.
I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes, and make the system fairer for all Americans.
Ive got a record in Florida.
I didn't want to go into Iraq, and I fought it, because what I said -- what I said... ... was you're going to -- you're going to destabilize... ... the Middle East, and that's what happened.
With all of the problems we that we have, in so many instances -- we have wonderful people coming in.
We said no.
And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement.
And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table.
We will provide essential, unique capabilities that we have, but the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line.
For 30 years this country has been baited with that.
I was governor of New York on September 11.
Well, Ive given him plenty of money.
I think being the first woman president would be quite a change from the presidents we've had up until this point, including President Obama.
I support air strikes in Syria and what the president is trying to do.
And he lived with us, growing up.
I cant do it alone.
You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending.
And I am proud to have been one of the people on the stage who was part of making sure that what Governor Bush said before was the truth.
And he said, oh, I'm never going to attack.
We're dying.
Look, under President Obama and Secretary Clinton, they're working hard to change the American dream into the European nightmare.
Thats great, but youre not solving problems for American wage earners.
Our vets have been abandoned.
I'm spending all of my money, I'm not spending -- I'm not getting any -- I turned down -- I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he's got.
It'll be a pretty busy day, but that Iran negotiation is going to be torn up on day one.
Go Tom Brady, go Patriots.
We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in.
The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end.
We actually did it.
After the war we had all of these kids, Baby Boomers.
But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.
I agree 100 percent, by the way, with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem, for the obvious reasons, but they do not.
And we have honored that blessing.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but "Hell no" to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror, Susan Rice has said that, and we need to stand up and strongly and clearly tell the ayatollah that -- whoever the next president of the United States is going to be, and I'll promise you, if it's me, the first thing that I will do is tear up that agreement with Iran.
And Carl -- Carl, I'm not finished yet.
So let's start by knowing where your money is being spent by the federal government.
Let's begin, Anderson, by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a D-minus voting rating (ph) from the NRA.
And what you're going to see in Washington this week is establishment Republicans have made an agreement with the president to raise the debt ceiling in an unlimited fashion; no limit to the debt ceiling raise.
Theres not two of us; theres one of us.
If you run the numbers, no American who  is going to be paying more taxes under our proposal.
This president has gone to Congress and said give me a three-year deadline, give me a ban on ground troops.
You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba.
Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians when Medvedev was the president, and not Putin.
But people came in by the droves.
It's you see the health insurance companies getting together.
It's the only way you fix Medicare, the only way you fix Social Security.
We will have a president willing to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism," and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons.
When -- when we put all the facts down, you'll be able to see that it's not true, it works out very well.
Barack Obama is an incompetent commander in chief.
I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today.
This president has failed, and when I'm in the Oval Office, police officers will know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States.
Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system, and to address race relations in our country.
It wasn't that complicated to me.
I had democratic party political consultants telling me I was committing political suicide.
One of the worst contracts of any kind I've ever seen.
is exactly the leadership we need in Washington, D.C.
And now they are beating us economically.
We're not doing it.
You look at Sergeant Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, a traitor, and they get five of the big, great killers leaders that they want.
We shouldn't be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild left-wing idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate.
None of us has all the answers.
And I did it including people in the other party.
According to the FBI and the director of national intelligence, Syria's becoming a perfect platform to strike our nation.
What I'm saying is lift the political restrictions.
I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally.
We're talking about Iran.
She was a principled pioneer that helped change this country, helped remedy racial injustice, and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate.
We got a military that needs equipment all over the place.
That's why I'm running for President.
Maybe the barrier  the bars even higher for me.
I think this goes back to essentially what we've been saying for the last two or three questions.
So we would grow our economy, have a far greater impact globally, have a secured domestic source of energy and cleaner, healthier air.
I'd been appointed by the governor.
Were in the Republican primary here.
You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.
I would prevent them lobbying Congress.
And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.
We've had a lot of discussion here about criminal justice reform.
Community banks are going out of business.
And she counts on the fact that people are uninformed, the Alinsky Model, taking advantage of useful idiots.
And it only makes common sense.
You've heard a lot of promises up here; you've heard a lot of rhetoric.
But here's what's going to happen:
They're managing money from all over the world.
Let me say -- because there's a lot of loose talk going on here -- we are already flying in Syria just as we are flying in Iraq.
Thats been consistently proven.
Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999, it was not because our city was doing well.
I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail, too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen again.
I would just say this, that what youre seeing is in healthcare, youre seeing a lot of consolidation and that consolidation is occurring because of Obamacare.
They go, if I get elected, first day they're gone.
With respect to the financial sector, I mean, I know that my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind of frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name I can't get into the discussion.
I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign -- in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.
and he said No.
Well, first of all, the -- the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars -- not television scholars, but legal scholars -- that it is wrong.
I cut taxes more than everybody on this stage.
The one I use the most is Uber.
Second of all, the secretary is right.
But as Bill said earlier, Roe v. Wade, it's has been the law for 42 years, and I don't think we should continue to try to change it.
So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three.
Now one other company before that was Lucent.
He says he wants to solve problems.
If you look at China and India, they're the greatest polluters in the world.
At that particular point in time, then Americans will believe that Washington is up to a conversation to deal with the millions of people that are here illegally, but not until.
We don't need newer (ph) laws.
Ive evolved on many issues over the years.
Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country.
And, you know, a lot of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism.
I would send weapons to Ukraine.
Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well.
They're going to come in legally.
That's what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida.
And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason... ...
6 or seven in the polls.
It is a partisan vehicle, as admitted by the House Republican majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers.
You know, I'm big on -- that we were -- and I love what Carly said about women's suffrage.
No wonder our economy has been stagnant.
If they had guns, he wouldn't be around very long.
So I have a long history of getting things done, rooted in the same values...
So, here's a couple of stories happened recently.
I mean actually spend less.
And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around.
They have changed peoples lives.
And you know what, they voted for moderates, they voted with the hope of democracy.
I wake up every morning as an outsider.
My dad owned the bar.
I respect what Secretary Clinton and her husband have done for our country.
Syria's a mess.
Whenever they tell us in D.C. theyre going to cut tomorrow, that means theyre never going to cut.
I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood.
And also we just bombed a hospital.
And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in.
And theyve paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they cant get in.
We get along with nobody.
We'll kill the terrorists, we'll repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
Our greatest military-operational threat is resolving the situations in the Middle East.
And thats why Ive advocated a proportional tax system.
Hes exactly right.
And I have really started to see some of the negatives  as an example, and I have a lot of liking for this man, but the last number of months of his brothers administration were a catastrophe.
We didn't spend any.
All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee.
You also have to some strategically cutting in several places.
We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India, Russia.
It's a private-sector solution that believes in freedom, not Obamacare that believes in government control.
And finally, a little bit of what Carly said.
And you combine that with reforms of our welfare system.
And when I was in the Senate, I was an all-of-the-above energy voter.
Number two, we had a really good plan.
We could rebuild the missile defense program.
That is an international embarrassment that we do not provide family -- paid family and medical leave.
Today, the scientific community is virtually unanimous: climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable planet for our children and our grandchildren.
It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget.
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan.
He is a true gentleman.
No, I oppose it because you're taking money from the entitlement and then spending it immediately on other items.
Instead, the Washington establishment raised both.
That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders.
We have people that are selling this country down the drain.
As far as being an outsider is concerned -- as far as being an outsider is concerned, let me tell you this, Jake, I'm a Republican in New Jersey.
Good company.... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in -- and I wouldn't even use -- you know, I have -- I know the smartest negotiators in the world.
The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate.
While I'm as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly's career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn't have a job, who can't fund his child's education, I've got to tell you the truth.
But mostly, the highest calling of leadership is to challenge the status-quo and unlock the potential of others.
It's time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation.
The Fed had to act.
And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does he support police officers?
Why doesn't this country focus on cures rather than treatment?
And it is true that it did require that there be a process.
And it's impossible for our people here to compete.
And the Fed also, by the way, should reduce its balance sheet, 2.7 trillion, let some of those bonds mature and put the money back in the banking system so our economy can grow.
They shouldn't automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe.
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass.
Border Patrol, people that I deal with, that I talk to, they say this is whats happening.
We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China.
And I put the African American soldier on the Mall.
And I've done it in... ... both places.
And, people are sick of believing that the government is never going to really address this.
But, yes, I would like students to work 10 hours a week... Well, I fully support Social Security.
And Mrs. Clinton has to defend her track record.
We don't get along with China.
I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush.
I would sign an executive order protecting religious liberty, our first amendment rights, so Christian business owners and individuals don't face discrimination for having a traditional view of marriage.
You do not have the right to conduct cyber warfare against tens of millions of American citizens.
Somehow, he just doesn't have courage.
Folks, the government has no business stealing even more from the people who have paid this in.
And it should happen at the state and local level.
We have to end crony capitalism in Washington, where the lobbyists and the powerful can get tax breaks and tax credits, and the American people don't get laws in their interest.
That's not consistent with the Tenth Amendment.
That's what we've done in Wisconsin, that's exactly what we'd do as...: That's because of Barack -- that's because of Barack Obama.
But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.
China and Russia have never been on our side of the table.
First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it.
2016 is going to be a fight between conservatism, and a Democrat party that is undermining the very character of this nation.
Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and -- and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do.
So, yes, I want families to have better-paying jobs and better benefits, but were not going to get that with a government mandate.
The biggest bank in the world is from China.
We need to pay respect to both of them.
And it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans are always saying it will have.
It is clearly a state responsibility.
You know, we've got a lot of great talkers running for president.
Sorry, CNBC.
We lost friends of ours in the Trade Center that day.
Its about making sure that law enforcement professionals, not only in the way in to their positions but all the way through their time, have the proper training, particularly when it comes to the use of force.
It always seems to be the private marketplace does a better job.
But together as a city, we saved a lot of lives.
I was watching and he said the statement.
I would get rid of virtually every single one of them.
We had a murderous dictator, Gadhafi, who had American blood on his hands, as I'm sure you remember, threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people.
Super PACs are a disaster.
Was the first person to graduate from college.
And I watch the speeches.
We need to have a national security that puts steel in front of our enemies.
So were treating them and getting them on their feet.
Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C.
On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and abetting that, of course we should take action.
I have studied that issue in great detail.
We did not land a man on the moon with an all-of-the-above strategy.
We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on.
Let us actually go to zero- based budgeting so we know where the money is being spent.
Were going to get that with a growing economy.
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win.
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.
It regulates bathrooms.
Leading from behind is a disaster.
John Kennedy said, "we'll go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back," and we did it.
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
It's a blessing that we're living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that blessing.
We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas.
That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses.
But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you.
Every effort that he has made, that some of us have made, they have said no, no, no.
You know why three?
Hillary Clinton lies about Benghazi, she lies about e- mails.
Mine is unique in the sense that my tax plan actually gets rid of the payroll tax as well.
And, to -- provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are.
I talked about the success in Yuma County, I mean, incredible success, and the Department of Justice said, "No, we don't want to do that.
We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy.
We have to stand up to his bullying, and specifically in Syria, it is important -- and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now with the Russians to make it clear that they've got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict.
And that's why, not only did we pass it, but the NRA didn't... ...dare to petition a referendum... ...Because we built a public consensus... COOPER: ...I want to move on to another issue, which is in the headlines right now, another crisis making headlines.
We got a Republican House, weve got a Republican Senate, and we dont have leaders who honor their commitments.
And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe.
And thats pretty scary.
People were saying, could we do it?
She does not have a track record of accomplishment.
A lot of them are criminals.
And then we have to take care of the people that cant take care of themselves.
We have proven we can do that in New Jersey.
Im not married; I have a military retirement.
And I will assure you, as the governor of the state of Texas, and as those last four years have shown me, the preparation to be ready to stand on this stage and talk about those monetary policies, those domestic policies, and those foreign policies, Americans are going to see that I am ready to be that individual.
But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away.
They built the great wall of China.
If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they weren't willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.
But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the day it happened.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up -- retirement plans.
And I think the reason he did is because immigration is sort of an example of what's broken and what's wrong in Washington, D..C.
Lets shrink the government economy, lets grow the American economy.
When I was 22, my dad died.
And these -- if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves.
And the vast majority of them were young and poor and black.
Met with a group of DREAMers, I wish everybody in America could meet with this young people, to hear their stories, to know their incredible talent, their determination, and that's why I would go further... ...than even the executive orders that President Obama has signed when I'm president.
It's poor people and middle class.
By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats.
He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt.
We have a serious problem in terms of the collection of personal information in this country.
People's families are -- are being torn apart.
Do you know why Boeing came to South Carolina when they could have gone anywhere to build the 787?
I was a governor during the 9/11 attack.
The scientific community is telling us that if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable energy, the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable.
That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on DACA, and DAPA.
We will arm and train the Kurds.
They're controlled fully -- they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.
This president and Hillary Clinton, who cant even say shes for the X.L.
We need to live in a world where our children are free, are free from the threats of radical Islamic terrorism.
But to protect our military, I would have signed it.
Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country -- I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals... ...
But I  but Im very hopeful that Im not the only onel whos willing to pick up the baton of freedom, because freedom is not free, and we must fight for it every day.
The President came after me and said I need to bone up.
But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security.
And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish.
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe.
But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country.
I changed it in New Jersey.
Im a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the next generation of Millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we can grow a 21st century economy.
Hussein was the great bulwark and counterbalance to the Iranians.
(LAUGHTER)
I'm the only person on this stage who spent seven years as a United States Attorney after September 11th, and I know how to do this.
But the reason America is a great country, the reason is because our compassion is in our laws.
It's -- it's a powerful part of our -- of our Bill of Rights.
Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again.
And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns.
They can take those dollars to a private school of their choice in the state as well.
Well, I can't think of anything more of an outsider than electing the first woman president, but I'm not just running because I would be the first woman president.
And if there would be a major difference between my administration and the Obama administration, it would be in the use of executive authority.
We cant fix the problem just by ending (ph) Congress retirement, thats worth about, this much.
Again Chris, hundreds and hundreds of deals.
There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight.
We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country.
We have been talking about it for decades.
Well, the voters in Wisconsin elected me last year for the third time because they wanted someone who aimed high, not aimed low.
They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."
You embrace the energy revolution in our country.
They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.
But, no, Im not concerned that Americans are not going to have choices in beer.
Its not true.
Listen, I was born into a middle class family in New Jersey.
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?...
They used it as an operating space to grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.
My father was born in Italy, and shortly after he was born my grandfather immigrated to this country.
And there should be a path to earned legal status
It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.
And we have people that are controlled by special interests.
And not only did I fight them, but I beat them.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
It's like a 400 pound man saying, "I'm going to go on a diet, but I'm eating a sack of Krispy Kremes before I do."
We have to save the Consumer Financial Protection board, which is finally beginning to act to protect consumers.
Donald Trump actually seized on it when he talked about immigration.
WALKER Mr. Trump, you're using the talking points of the Democrats... No.
SuperPacs are a disaster.
I put it in the list, Dana.
There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak.
But we also have to worry about some of the other players -- AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman Brothers, an investment bank.
The second, to the supreme leader, to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime, anywhere inspections by our people, not his, we, the United States of America, will make it as difficult as possible and move money around the global financial system.
I see people exercising the most irresponsible fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do.
Yes, I happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy.
But we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just like having a beer.
How are we going to get health care for everybody... Well, I never said it wasn't legitimate.
When I was 21, my mom died.
But in the meantime, you have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I'm ready to use them.
We're going to bring jobs and manufacturing back.
: That's because of Barack Obama.
I mean, that's just the bottom line.
But look at that border with Saudi Arabia.
Well, I recall very well being on a debate stage, I think, about 25 times with then Senator Obama, debating this very issue.
So I'm with both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks.
Our country wouldn't be here without John Adams, and he would not have been able to do it without Abigal Adams, so, I'd put Abigail Adams on the bill.
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare.
Because we have a system of Obamacare, with minimum loss ratios, that make it virtually impossible for a small insurer to operate effectively.
Thats going to create a burden on your children, which they are already overburdened.
In Louisiana, we fought so that the dollars follow the child, instead of the child following the dollar.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations.
Chris, I actually said that on your show earlier this year.
Our president doesn't have a clue.
We lose with ISIS.
As a result, you are going to see tuition prices continue to go up.
People were talking at -- and saying, "it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy," and I thought, "has this world gone mad?"
Lets take a broken immigration
I dont mean shrink the growth rate.
They don't provide any abortions in Louisiana.
I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world.
This is why --
He's very upset.
WALKER You're using the talking...
They are not.
This is the same old stuff since I left.
And to do so in a way that allows that ISIS doesn't go back in Syria, as we were just talking about here.
Well, I was chairman for two years, and when I was chairman we did take action.
We need to change the conditions on the ground so that young men are not in poverty and susceptible to radicalization.
Our presidency -- our presidency -- will be about ending that, about enforcing the law, level the playing field for everybody, and once again reward those folks who play by the rules, and think that justice means more than just the word.
I said I actually listened to the American people.
One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a socialistic thing.
My mother is on Medicare and Social Security.
Socialism is bad, not only for taxpayers, but for people that they say theyre trying to help.
Well, recognize that, you know, President George W. Bush is a great friend of ours, and we spent many wonderful days at the White House.
And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted.
And the Wall Street Journal.
Martha, religious liberty doesn't include encouraging a fellow American to engage in violent jihad and kill an American here.
And it wasnt aborted.
We  we spent a lot of time talking about Hillary Clinton and and pitting us back and forth.
They didn't do that.
He really is.
The legal immigration system remains broken.
The Obama White House seems to have in interest, the Justice Department seems to have no interest.
I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan.
A military island.
If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway.
I've got a track record.
If they come legally, great.
And it all started with the Iraq invasion.
The only way we're going to defund Planned Parenthood is have a pro-life president.
The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other's enemies, it's those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies.
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to destroy and divide NATO.
A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago.
We have to recognize we have two choices.
Do I take the product?
Were not going to eliminate the corporate tax, but we can make it lower.
You know, I've been called a lot of names by a lot of different people, and now I got to get called by names by the Secret Service?
And if you want to read a story, it's called The Speckled Monster, it's an amazing story, it was all done voluntary.
And they're doing fine.
Folks, we've got to wake up.
But for that Texas police officer, we could have had a mass murder.
America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.
And I support what President Bush did at that time, going into Afghanistan, hunting al Qaeda and its leaders, getting its sanctuary out of place, and making it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money.
It's certainly the chaos in the Middle East.
And as a clarification, I have always supported affirmative action for African Americans.
Now, Bill, he loves to criticize America, apologize for us, criticize medieval Christians.
I have a plan.
I don't think you'd even be asking this question if I didn't run because when I ran, and I brought this up, my opening remarks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time.
This is money that people have confiscated out of their paychecks.
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest.
Nobody does, Senator Sanders.
He's been terrific at that business.
Donald Trump is hitting a nerve in this country.
Vaccines are very important.
We have many challenges.
But I do believe -- and maybe it's because I worked when I went through college; I worked when I went through law school -- I think it's important for everybody to have some part of getting this accomplished.
The questions that are being asked shouldn't be trying to get people to tear into each other.
They make a billion dollars a day.
Children are going to suffer and families hearts are going to be broken that their kids wont be able to get a job in the 21st Century.
And we must deal with all three of these problems.
In DC, the Republicans slow the growth rate.
Most importantly, I listened to the people of America.
Looking at their academic standards, anybody gotten into the university has been invited to this debate tonight.
We don't want American troops on the ground in Syria.
I grew up in a steel town in western Pennsylvania, outside of Pittsburgh, and when I announced for President, I announced from a factory floor.
And I have to say that I think that the Obama Administration has been completely lax, to say the least, in dealing with these cyber attacks, not just by governments like North Korea, but by particularly Chinese and other countries.
It's a political Justice Department.
There was no room for a liberal moderate Republican in that party.
And  and, Megyn?
The Europeans have moved on.
But the money poured in to defeat me in Rhode Island as a Republican.
Do I want them to have better benefits?
It isn't "I put money in, I'm getting it back."
Why haven't we repealed and replaced Obamacare?
We lose on trade.
I was asked should it be raised, I said, probably, or possibly.
People have one standard for others and not for them -- for themselves.
Wall Street is doing great.
That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty.
What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement.
Let us be clear that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of Wall Street, where fraud is a business model, helped to destroy this economy and the lives of millions of people.
So I put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and for wind.
So, yes, there is accountability to the students through choice and competition.
I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good.
We closed that gap.
I think everybody is in agreement that we are a great entrepreneurial nation.
That means repeal all of Obamacare, a lower, flatter tax code.
And so I defunded Planned Parenthood.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid.
And God speaks through the Bible.
1 and now he's No.
And I had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had to confront, the idea I might become a single parent, the idea that my life and my children's life might be changed forever.
You will also have to means-test the benefits and declare there's not enough money.
Just one second.
People were shocked, Trump got it.
We need to use our technological advantages, because what we've warned of is an international guerrilla movement that threatens this country.
But the thing is, the first war was a mistake.
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day.
Maybe it's because I hadn't given money to the foundation or donated to his wife's Senate campaign.
Right now, the wealthy pay too little and the middle class pays too much.
That does not mean Im for the government mandating that.
I've turned it down.
And I can do it regardless of what the makeup of Congress is because I did it in New York state.
But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting.
But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work.
I'll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of the American people.
He'll say.
And what I'm most proud of is my judgment, particularly in the Iraq war vote.
It is not consistent with states' rights.
We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of...
Thats why I ask for your vote.
Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very clear about my principals.
Come on.
And they are looking for whatever their particular goal is.
Play by the rules.
Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations.
Atlantic City has gone bad.
We have a lot of work to do in New Jersey, but I am darn proud weve brought our state back.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you had better get rid of the super PACs, because they're causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that are being made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
We are the United States of America, not the divided states.
Well, Megyn, first of all, Im not sure that thats a correct assessment of my record.
The -- the agreements -- the so-called agreements that we have had with China are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the -- of the Chinese government itself.
It wasn't easy on any day.
If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
And they are really in charge.
But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East.
They had a plan that was good.
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.
And it's our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that it doesn't run amok and doesn't cause the kind of inequities we're seeing in our economic system.
Now they're going militarily.
And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country.
We do not project power from bankruptcy court.
They said they'd shrink and balance the budget.
Without national security, there is no economic security.
And frankly, fixing our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this as well.
What you need to do is free up interest rates.
Well, I know Ben wasn't talking about me, I'm sure he was talking about one of the other guys, not me.
We shouldnt borrow money from China to send it anywhere, but why dont we start with eliminating aid to our enemies.
You have not heard a plan about Iran from any politician up here, here is my plan.
And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president.
Heres the problem, governor.
It's just -- it's gone back and forth over there.
We can never let the American taxpayer and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw.
Look, there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion.
I haven't been there in the last seven years.
As president, that is exactly what Ill do.
I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place.
In government service, I've fought and bled for our country in Vietnam as a Marine.
Too often, they give up, they negotiate with themselves.
Wasnt even the legislature.
The Fair Tax.
We should be relying upon the leadership of the Congress to pass the laws.
I am 60.
You said it.
As a President of the United States, every life in this country matters.
The reason I did so well last time is not just because of the vision, it's because I have a track record in Washington, D.C. of getting things done.
The American people are never going to trust Washington, D.C., and for good reason.
I have two sons.
And he was a managing general partner.
Im looking at this budget with one view in mind.
Iran is not a place we should be doing business with.
That is not protected free speech.
And when it comes to our manufacturers, the level playing field is not in the United States, its international.
My record is clear.
You want to help actually get jobs, it's why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes.
That's not only American dream, that's a value that we have with a good immigration system in place.
Good God, look who were running against.
That's not just a visit, that's a 21 gun salute on the South Lawn of the White House.
But I -- the struggle of single moms is extraordinary.
You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?
Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up -- coming up with these fantasy tax schemes.
And, I'll do that with the country.
I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible.
They're killing us.
Those are good-paying jobs.
America's been knocked down.
I came as a reformer.
Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again.
And I would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and Alzheimer's, because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost.
What the Iranians have said is, we will wipe Israel off the face of the map, and we will bring death to America.
There are many people.
It is Hillary, it is Biden, it is the others who insist on allowing abortion well into viable (inaudible) wrong, and that should be stopped.
My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a father.
I think there's nothing more important than understanding that the Constitution restrains government, not the people.
King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I've known for a long time, has been asking for bombs and materiel.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created.
We'll have more of everything.
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes.
Bill, here's the interesting position on this.
You mentioned the construction company.
He's an S corporation.
Let's let a Justice Department -- and I will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more than just a word.
First of all, these lenders arent babies.
And let me tell you, our democratic friends have a list a mile long for more government.
And thats what shes doing.
But my elections are really not about campaigns.
And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer off... John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do.
The same goes with China.
Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks.
And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is talking about.
Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.
And they're all over the place.
I was governor on September 11th, and I'm proud of my leadership in bringing New York through that time.
If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.
Theyre coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras.
Number one, we have to create better paying jobs.
Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values.
So we go from 2.3 to 3.3.
At the same time, I believe I can say to you, I have had a long history of working with the situation of African Americans.
I ran for office to make the generational changes in Louisiana.
What you have to ask yourself is: Who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that are going to improve the lives of the American people?
Yes, it's very simple.
Thats what we have today.
I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it's unfair.
That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable.
And we have gotta break off these banks.
That means we have an energy plan that makes sense.
She is, and so if she, based on conscience, can't sign that -- that marriage license, then there should be someone in her office to be able to do it, and if the law needs to be changed in the state of Kentucky, which is what she's advocating, it should be changed.
We did it in other ways.
This president has had weak leadership, which has led to bad choices.
And Lady Justice, Lady Justice holds a sword by her side, because she is a fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great.
The reality is, the idea of America is slipping away.
But I think what he did in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is (inaudible).
Alzheimers, diabetes, heart disease and cancer.
I'm a fan of the drug courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail.
Chris, absolutely yes.
Someone who's been tested.
I was raised paycheck to paycheck.
I understand we have got to do far more to help our military, help our veterans and help protect our security.
Everybody got out -- and they kept our equipment.
Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us?
It's a joke.
You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers.
They haven't done that.
You fundamentally misunderstand the Bill of Rights.
I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
's entrenched problems head-on.
We will make this country greater than ever before.
I made that recommendation and fought for it.
We have to be prepared to defend the American people, prepare them for a long war, stand up for the defense of this country, and stand up for the values of this country...
He is.
But we are not Denmark.
In the senate, I spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day one.
We need a leader that wrote "The Art of the Deal."
Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran.
And he didn't sound like what they said Republicans were.
And if that's truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing, then with all due respect to the former secretary of state, I disagree with him.
They wanted Boeing's secrets.
Here is the thing, he doesn't want to make it about medical marijuana, but what if New Jersey's medical marijuana contradicts the federal law?
We need to be on the side that keeps Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money?
But I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
We would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave.
I wake up every morning with a Democratic legislature who trying to beat my head in and fight me because I'm trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately.
And, so, if there's anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, they're giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that.
We did statewide school choice.
We are all in this together.
They didn't do that either.
Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, "Sorry, fellas.
They have no plan now."
All we have to do is use a little common sense.
A healthy environment, a strong economy and energy independent America -- that would be the purpose of my presidency, is break the strangle hold that people enjoy on fossil fuels who hate our guts.
That's the big leagues.
And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else.
I beat China all the time.
We welcomed them there.
I believe that I will get along -- we will do -- between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations.
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had, to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs.
Now, there's a lot of greater people up here, and you've heard a lot of great ideas out there.
I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors.
Listen, just one second.
Im tired of losing.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
They look around for gun-free zones.
Tonight, you sit at home in your living room, frustrated that you play by the rules, you pay the taxes, you do the hard things to raise your family, yet you feel like America's generosity is being taken advantage of.
(APPLAUSE) And the way I will come at it is to educate people, help people to actually understand that it is that progressive movement that is causing them the problems.
Look at what we have done in New Jersey.
To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government?
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth.
Theyve been zero for way too long.
And I'm running for president to end the wars.
We ought to send used equipment, right?
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when  when we invaded, it was a mistake.
Certain ones.
You know, I won two record elections.
ISIS wants to fight Syria.
When we shut the government down -- if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes.
We can't have -- the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you can't get attacked.
No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.
Ive gone to Detroit.
He was young.
She is still defending Planned Parenthood, and she is still her party's frontrunner.
We have people that are morally corrupt.
And this deal is giving him a pathway to a bomb, a missile to deliver it, and money to pay for it all.
Let me tell you, Donald Trump would be a president every day of the week and twice on Sunday, rather than Hillary.
Because my dad died 15 months later.
Wayne Lapierre from the NRA, whoever it is, the leaders.
I was ready to lead, but I wasn't ready to run.
We're not coming to take away your guns, we believe in the Second Amendment, but let's find common ground here.
Bring people in based on merit.
I think we need to do this state by state.
China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it.
It was pretty straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in America.
I didn't.
I've got a very simple strategy as your president against ISIL.
People know this is about far more than replacing a D with an R --
Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place.
Thanks to the insanity, the incompetence of the Democratic Party, the American people are ready to turn our government over to us.
First of all, Jeb, I am very happy that you denied that, and I appreciate that very much.
At the center of my campaign is how we're going to raise wages.
Were not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation.
But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates?
They all seem to happen during campaigns, and then once the election's over, people start from scratch again and try to get things done.
And they don't know -- "Are you running?
There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases.
My point is this: I won two landslide elections, I made big changes.
"Jeb Bush, why have your numbers fallen?"
I believe in the 10th Amendment and I really will say that the states are left to themselves.
Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all.
But yes, I am prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary.
And the fact is there are a lot of things happening at the federal level that are absolutely beyond the jurisdiction of the Constitution.
The word economy comes from the Greek word oikos, which means family.
And we're talking about fantasy football?
Saying, creating a grievance kind of environment.
In fact, that's part of the problem.
And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in '16, 2016.
They said they would repeal Obamacare if we gave them the majority.
...I'm going to sign an order that makes the Congress live by the same rules as everybody else.
He was on the board.
So I have specific recommendations about how we're going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have to pay their fair share, and have a series of tax cuts for middle-class families.
But the problem is we have a Wall Street-to-Washington access of power that has controlled the political climate.
Everybody thought it was a done deal.
We do -- sorry, Barbara.
-- imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans --
But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people.
We have come to a pivotal point in our nation's history where this nation's possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government grown so big, so powerful, so inept, so corrupt, and a political class that refuses to do anything about it.
The rest of it is all just hot air.
He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico."
I gotta do it, Dad.
He's a gifted politician.
They have no choice.
And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career.
We have a president who doesnt have a clue.
And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise.
"If you've saved one life, you've changed the world."
We have -- we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana.
Get rid of the fraud.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And we fought for statewide school choice, where the dollars follow the child, instead of the child following the dollars.
It is Iran that's the expansionist power.
This country has been extraordinarily blessed.
And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it's because of the rich.
Intervene before the crime happens.
I actually have a plan.
It was settled.
He trusts our enemies and vilifies everyone who disagrees with him.
Her track record of lying about Benghazi, of lying about her e- mails, about lying about her servers.
It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington.
I've been married to her 41 years.
There is no money, it's a stack of paper.
You want to see a war on women?
And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers.
Somebody says "I'm a fighter."
Its uncontroverted.
Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump.
Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with.
Please come and make it clear that America's best days are still ahead.
And it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country.
And as a citizen of Florida, I voted no.
My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.
It is called the Constitution of the United States.
We're at a crossroads right now.
Were going to fix immigration only if we work together.
But we are used to being in the Super Bowl, so actually, it is in Pennsylvania already.
Get over that one, OK?
Doctors are quitting.
I'm going to be introducing a plan which I call the 2020 Perfect Vision for America.
...The only way we're going to be morale, the only way we're going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth.
How do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its, quote, "intellect," in order to help us to be able to live healthier and better lives?
They have sponsored terrorist groups, Hamas and Hezbollah, and they threaten the very essence of Western civilization.
Every one of us must fight for it, because were fighting for our children and the next generation.
Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time.
America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia.
But it occurs to me as we're sitting here in the Reagan Library that most of us would like to pay tribute to a guy who, when he got elected, didn't get elected telling everybody how great he was.
He is definitely my friend.
so that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it, and not be on long waiting lines.
That's the difference.
We can have next generation nuclear reactors that have no risk of meltdown.
A person who has been filled with scandals, and who could not lead, and, of course, Im talking about Hillary Clinton.
And it is the most -- the federal government does all kinds of things it's not supposed to be doing.
Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution.
We can use our Air Force to amplify the forces there.
And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
Well, that -- that's exactly what I've been doing.
But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed.
They should raise the rates.
See -- seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, "are these my values?"
If theres going to be a negotiation, youre going to have to believe somehow that the Iranians are going to comply.
In my view, Secretary Clinton, you do not -- Congress does not regulate Wall Street.
We need to say just because you got money last year, you dont have it this year  let me close, though.
Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City.
You find me... You find me a Democrat -- you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars?
As a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system is corrupt and is undermining American democracy.
This is not medical marijuana.
But it is not needed in every circumstance.
We should use the debt ceiling, as precisely to Don, to force upon them budgetary reforms.
And that's all I'm saying, Jake.
Well, the deal was done.
We have to have assimilation -- to have a country, we have to have assimilation.
I've seen plenty of other people follow up?
They're a scam.
Our country has tremendous potential.
We all have plans.
Admiral Mullen said the debt is a big threat to our national security.
They're sending us not the right people.
facility, that veteran could get health care from the community health center, or the private sector.
Set aside the Iran deal.
When we met in Copenhagen in 2009 and, literally, President Obama and I were hunting for the Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center, because we knew we had to get them to agree to something.
I dont think that the president negotiated from a position of strength, but I dont immediately discount negotiations.
Im not used to that.
Well, yes, indeed.
We need to be very well aware of the fact that China and Russia are using technology to attack us, just as ISIS is using technology to recruit those who would murder American citizens.
Everybody thought the deal was dead.
We have to do it.
Wall Street regulates Congress.
Well, to start with, unlike President Obama, I'll actually name the enemy that we confront.
That is what is happening in the Middle East.
They could care less about your careers, they care about theirs.
So I would lead -- working with both parties in the Congress and working through them in the traditional way that our Constitution sets (ph).
Well first off, for the cyber attack with Russia the other day, its sad to think right now, but probably the Russian and Chinese government know more about Hillary Clintons e-mail server than do the members of the United States Congress.
People have been paying it for years.
But when (ph) it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.
Well, let's go with three.
What that means from K through 12, what that means is that parents and their families can decide what is the best way for their children to be educated.
And I'm delighted to be here with all of these guys, and would put any of them in an administration that I led.
So, we just spent 10 minutes here...
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist.
I want to increase legal immigration because were going to have a shortage of workers over time.
Its that they dont want to enforce the immigration laws.
I'm saying let's have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket.
So if he doesnt run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent
That was President Kennedy.
And heres why:  Because export financing doesnt help Boeing or GE.
And as someone who's worn the uniform of the country, that's how we build our military back up.
I will make sure that those laws are adhered to.
And Im proud of that record.
I know the overrated ones.
In this building, in Trump Tower.
The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is what is causing the problem.
Because our leaders are stupid.
Do you think Putin would be in the Ukraine today if Ronald Reagan were President?
I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said.
But realistically, even if they do, the money is flowing.
...Jake... ...Jake, (INAUDIBLE)... And then it'll be my turn.
He did -- he did break the law, and I think there should be a penalty to that.
End -- end Common Core.
In repealing Obamacare, its another .7.
In her world, cap- and-trade would dominate, that we will destroy the economy in the name of helping the environment.
I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young.
We were coming back from Katrina.
We'll pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS.
That's not why I ran for office.
What caused it was withdrawing from there and creating a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur.
Drug addiction is an epidemic, and it is taking too many of our young people.
Hes hitting a nerve.
The purpose of it is to make sure that we protect every American, wherever that American is, and if an American is calling out for help, whether its in Benghazi or at the border, then we ought to be able to answer it.
They will respect us like never before.
That's what they're doing.
No, he doesn't.
And Im the only one on this stage that knew that and had the vision to say it.
Everytime they got a paycheck, the government reached in and took something out of it before they ever saw it.
The game was rigged.
I've made my career as being an opponent of the Iraq War.
There are a lot of problems that are going on, and we need to solve those problems, we need to build up our military... Well, let me put it this way, there has -- there have been numerous studies, and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and autism.
The number one role of the Federal Government is to defend this nation.
When I was governor, I had a driver.
I'm in business.
He's in favor of Common Core.
They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph).
They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes.
My neighbors are all immigrants.
They don't mind having big government to interfere with a woman's right to choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood.
A politician other than the people in the states -- I don't want to -- a politician cannot get them to pay.
Our military has to be strengthened.
Over the course of my entire life, I have always fought for the same values and principles, but, like most human beings -- including those of us who run for office -- I do absorb new information.
We cannot afford four more years of on the job training.
We've had a president who called ISIS the J.V.
I in no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires.
We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs.
And by the way, as important as those two phone calls are, they are also very important because they say this.
Lets be honest with where we are today.
So I say get rid of the corporate tax.
And, you know, we're frustrated as conservatives.
And he wants America to lead.
But he used to say, "Donald, don't go into Manhattan.
We have been debating right here the core difference between conservatism and progressivism.
There are hundreds of things like that.
Thats what were taught when we have strong faith.
Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents.
I think it was a mistake to expand Medicaid everywhere in Ohio and across the country.
We haven't.
Should he stop saying that vaccines cause autism?
And that's exactly what I'll do.
The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times.
If we're going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible.
But unlike Mrs. Clinton, I know flying is an activity, not an accomplishment.
He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're here this evening.
Well, Jake, you know, I'm -- I'm very glad that Donald Trump's being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration.
You see, I've done it in both places.
We have got to stop worrying about being loved and start worrying about being respected.
My story, from secretary to CEO, is only possible in this nation, and proves that everyone of us has potential.
Big surprise.
Understand what they're saying.
I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.
We're a country of laws, not of men, not of people who do whatever they want to do.
What we should be doing is making our manufacturing more competitive.
Because, I've got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you're doing is called rude.
You are seeing it particularly in an area that I am concerned about.
We can raise our voices, but I come from a rural state, and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states, whether we like it or not.
We have tremendous people.
I've done an amazing job.
My tax plan, like everybodys, is like a lot of Republicans.
The Fed should get out of manipulating the market.
He has got -- that is why he is on the end.
What they talk about, just like DC, government is the only place where if you give them less money than they wanted, they count it as a cut.
And with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of God.
And then we can help the middle class and hard-earning Americans -- hard-working Americans.
That's all I'm saying.
The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and -- it's probably going to be have to be check -- go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.
That's it.
Our message is to conservatives.
They kill us.
Anderson, no president -- no commander in chief -- should take the military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option.
And my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail.
This isn't the governments money.
There are some things that I have learned to do better in life than others.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
I understand.
I was a terrific CEO, the board was dysfunctional.
It's gonna take the economy with them."
We have been lied to, and we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix
Dont do that.
Typically, politicians do things that are politically expedient.
But what I'm most proud of is that in 30 years of public service, I have had no scandals.
We came back from the dead.
But the point is that we all have solutions.
Thats the solution.
And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.
I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not.
Dana, I'd like to... Dana, I would like to link these two issues, both of which are incredibly important, Iran and Planned Parenthood.
Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on these issues, and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the Republicans at every turn, so...
The scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely boldly.
Our job is to bring people together around strong, commonsense gun legislation.
That's really nice.
Martha, we got a lot of politicians that will kiss babies, cut ribbons, do whatever it takes to be popular.
Did you say that?
Im a governor, I dont have a retirement program in my state, and I dont disagree with that.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but hell no, to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror
And that's really a theme of a lot of the things that I'm talking about.
He was vibrant.
But I'm also for freedom.
But we need to control our border.
It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
Thats why we have to reform Obamacare.
We need to elect someone who will stand with the American people, who understands its greatness, who understands what an open economy and freedom is all about, but at the same time, has a record of being able to get things done in Washington like we've never seen before.
The skin doesnt make them who they are.
He didn't know.
So I would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of the Patriot Act.
I've done it as much as anyone has.
Imagine -- imagine -- if a politician were held to that standard of account.
And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating -- keep giving... ...incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick?
It's a lot of ad hogshead.
They hack into our computers.
You have a bigger problem with China.
Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and so many have so little by which Wall Street's greed and recklessness wrecked this economy?
He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.
You wouldnt even be talking about it.
I'm someone who believes in peace through strength, and I would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace, and that war is the last resort, not the first resort.
It's why you see the banks consolidating.
They're laughing at us, at our stupidity.
They are not perfect.
The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up -- open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?"
Weve got to stop  we shouldnt fund our enemies, for goodness sakes.
It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world.
And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family.
If we don't seal the border, the rest of this stuff clearly doesn't matter.
Im a Reagan conservative.
A consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background checks, do away with this gun show loophole, that we have to address the issue of mental health, that we have to deal with the strawman purchasing issue, and that when we develop that consensus, we can finally, finally do something to address this issue.
We are the United States of America.
Senator Paul... That's true, sure.
I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option.
I believe we should be appointing Supreme Court justices who will follow the law and not try to make the law.
But, we also get rid of the payroll tax, so the working class would get a tax break as well.
But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate.
Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together.
We lose to China.
Weve gotten into this  this mindset of fighting politically correct wars.
But he did not have the tools.
They're taking money from Social Security and they're going to spend it on the military and they're going to spend it on domestic spending.
And you put me on that stage against her next September, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House.
I am doing business transactions.
I do not see -- want to see one parent or loved one worrying about getting a call in the middle of the night.
We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply.
And the idea that this negotiation -- I will tell you one thing.
We have Arab allies.
We need a national political strategy for our economy, for our social policy, for social justice, and, by the way, for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in the world, which is the federal government.
And that doesn't have to be true.
Heres the problem, the Republicans never want to fight.
They said its the disengagement of America.
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran.
It is a false choice.
And frankly, it's tougher because of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail.
Carly Fiorina also said we're not going to talk with Putin.
He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, "No interest."
It has been stolen from.
We're going dark when it comes to detecting the next attack.
You know, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard.
Look, the genius of our nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of the workforce.
When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal?
Because the insurance companies are making a fortune because they have control of the politicians, of course, with the exception of the politicians on this stage.
And really, we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here.
We tried it that way.
But I have said that Mr. Trumps language is divisive.
And, I think it's important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that it's not acceptable for him to be in Syria creating more chaos, bombing people on behalf of Assad, and we can't do that if we don't take more of a leadership position, which is what I'm advocating.
That makes no sense whatsoever.
We are not respected now.
Somebody said, "Oh, that's crass."
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer.
They're a feeding frenzy for sick people.
And they have a lot of control over our politicians.
On day one in the Oval Office, I would make two phone calls.
This is the biggest issue facing this nation.
I'm using facts.
That is in fact precisely the way you ran your casinos.
I humbly ask for your vote, whenever youre gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is.
I'm extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country, the divisiveness that is going on, fiscal irresponsibility, the failure to take a leadership position in the world.
What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American?
So the total is $8,737,540,00.
GE just lost a contract.
We ended partial-birth abortion.
Because we wanted them.
I -- I am not, and -- and you mentioned that the U.S. Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms.
One article called me aggressively normal.
I understand....
To make sure that our people have education and jobs rather than jail cells.
I know the terrorists are constantly seeking it, and that's why we have to stay vigilant, but also united around the world to prevent that.
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.
I'm Ted Cruz.
Hes right.
And Juan Carlos -- Juan Carlos... Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked.
Thats a long and difficult process.
I believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately.
So it hasn't really been completely adjudicated.
We will be stronger when we are unified.
Well, I have one now -- they (ph) call me, "Unit One".
Wait a minute, Carly.
If I were leading, we would pass a conservative budget, challenge the President to do the right thing.
And thats why Im asking for your vote.
We'll go to the Congress.
Ask Boeing.
Really big league.
You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning.
But this President wont let us produce more energy on our domestic federal lands and waters.
That's the way you help people create jobs.
But here is the bottom line.
There's only a promise to pay by the next generation, and the next generation's not big enough to pay it.
Well, number one, the only reason I have an iPhone is because I gave my number to Donald Trump.
It is safe, it is clean.
We can reform those entitlements, we can change that corporate tax code and lower it.
I would take the fight to these guys, whatever it took, as long as it took.
You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it?
All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues.
But you have not been in the United States Congress.
It was an intentional engineering challenge, and we solved it as a nation.
They are real.
Crime was supposed to be left to the states.
He's referred to me... ... in his remarks.
We have people that don't have it.
We have failed as a country to invest in the human intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but better decisions in Syria today.
You know, Obama's committed to his principles.
You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior.
For some reason, the private sector is a bad word to this President.
What we're going to do to strengthen the military.
If we want to raise the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the Republicans in the eye, and say, "We know what's going on.
This is an issue that -- that we've gotta talk about, and we haven't talked about yet.
We've got a president who instead says, we're going to change hearts and minds.
Our vets have to be taken care of.
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures.
I'm also going to take a bottle of White-Out with me to get started on all those executive orders that Mr. Obama has put his name to.
We're not going to... Well, and I don't -- he may have lined up with their positions on this issue.
Gangs all over the place.
When our country is threatened, or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country.
And yes, it was a very difficult time.
We have one right now.
And I will tell you that what those people wanted and what they deserved was for America to answer back against what had been done to them.
He was a great negotiator.
One principle, for example, we've got to embrace is on immigration.
We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds.
And the potential of this nation is being crushed.
You're telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected Democrat county clerk from Rowan County, Kentucky?
I have a record of working across the political aisle.
Growth is the answer.
He said, "You know, I make great product."
Embrace science, embrace innovation and change.
You can't have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those families.
Is there an area for a safety net?
Helping business make profits.
And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed.
Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck.
Im in good shape.
You're both successful people.
If they consolidate into a small group, then the left can say, Oh, there is no competition, we need the single payer.
This is about the character of our nation, and if we will not stand up in and force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us.
He's not a leader.
What goes on in Colorado, as far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision.
But let me just say about income inequality.
And I say, without any joy in my heart, that much of what I thought would happen about the destabilization, in fact, did happen.
We should be supportive, but I do not support American ground troops in Syria.
Now, here's the -- if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on.
Im a conservative, pro-life governor in a state where it is really tough to be both.
And by the way, I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and universities, free with a Wall Street speculation tax.
Heres the problem with Common Core.
And we have done not a good job on that.
I'm a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine.
And, Anderson, here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real.
I like and respect Ben Carson.
I can totally make that pledge.
This is a country that is of, for and by the people.
We're going to take the political handcuffs off the military.
That's exactly what we saw.
I asked my dad after -- obviously, when I found out about this.
But, we face, also, a bigger war -- and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government to be setting minimum wages... ...
He said, "I can't get it into China.
If a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical marijuana for seizure treatment, he would put her in jail, if it violates federal law.
We're going to lose Social Security and Medicare if Republicans and Democrats do not come together and find a solution like Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill.
And I concluded I could not.
They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well.
And I'm going to tell you this, we need to use the benefit of our law enforcement people across this country, combined with our intelligence people across this country.
When you find mush, you push.
This was a bad budget.
We now have a gun on every table.
I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it.
And thats exactly how Ill lead our country.
Come with me to Iraq and Afghanistan, folks.
And we had the Arabs standing by our side saying, "We want you to help us deal with Gadhafi."
our strength as a nation comes in our unity.
If you want boots on the ground, and you want them to be our sons and daughters, you got 14 other choices.
But they're killing us economically.
There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think tanks about how to reform the tax code.
They should be accountable for their students through the market.
We have not supplied it...
We say we like the 10th Amendment, until we start talking about this.
It works incredibly well in Scotland.
"Please reconsider," I'll say no.
Jeb, don't make things up.
I still say exactly what my original opinion is.
Government trying to level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a problem.
That's just a fact, and that's what Donald Trump taps into.
I remember as a young mother, you know, having a baby wake up who was sick and I'm supposed to be in court, because I was practicing law.
Well, first off, what we don't do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it.
They know we stand with them.
I think it was just sort of glossed over.
He didn't just believe it, he acted on it.
... because of what President Obama's done by pulling back.
But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that.
It's not responsible.
But at any rate, I didn't suggest that nothing be done.
And the world will respect us.
The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied.
So we can make America greater than it has ever been.
We need to combat institutional racism from top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice system...
It's all of our people, and so we must invest in our country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt.
We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game.
into bankruptcy.
A lot of people have jumped in here.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
And the second reason is because the individuals who register as guest workers, they don't get to vote, they are not American citizens, and they don't get the rights and privileges of American citizens.
We saw it in the blimp.
I'm not only referring to him.
Anderson, I need to jump in (inaudible).
Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person."
The second will be to the supreme leader of Iran.
I'm 44 years old.
And their daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora.
I changed that.
I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States.
It will create a manufacturing juggernaut in this country.
She didnt have a choice because I gave.
We don't get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right.
That's not the issue we're discussing.
Could we have your support?
No, that's not true, Senator Webb.
You see, in my lifetime, the greatest president was a governor from California.
And -- you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing winners and losers -- this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great deal of -- great deal of problems for our society right now.
They said they would get rid of the unconstitutional amnesty.
I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously.
The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit.
Problems have festered in Washington for too long.
And I will do everything I can to heal the divides -- the divides economically, because there's too much inequality; the racial divides; the continuing discrimination against the LGBT community -- so that we work together and, yes, finally, fathers will be able to say to their daughters, you, too, can grow up to be president.
And Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also.
But the bottom line is, we have to make sure that we are not flooding this country with
But we're not gambling.
Drew Brees and his wife, great role models, great Christians.
I am for a generous, compassionate America that says we're all in this together.
That doesn't mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs.
We're going to save Social Security, and we're going to save Medicare.
And what did they do?
We have a skills gap.
I'm very concerned about him -- having him in charge of the nuclear weapons, because I think his response, his -- his visceral response to attack people on their appearance -- short, tall, fat, ugly -- my goodness, that happened in junior high.
If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission.
You know, I used to get driven.
I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family.
We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates.
Whenever we go -- and contrary to John Quincy Adams' advice -- "searching the world for monsters to destroy," and when we use political might to take a -- at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves, and we hurt our (inaudible).
Do I want people to have paid leave?
I do not support the United States getting involved in unilateral action.
I will deliver for the American people if I have the privilege of leading this country.
It's nice.
Can you have Medicare or Social Security?
Now, it's very interesting.
Don't make things up.
I look at how this president, particularly through last November, messed up the immigration system in this country.
Thats fine.
We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia.
...Well, nobody does.
One of the things I can promise you, if you look at my record, in and out of government, is that I've always been willing to take on a complicated, something unpopular issues, and work them through, the complex issues, and work them through in order to have the solution.
You cannot separate it.
There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws.
There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic.
Secondly, I would get rid of the corporate tax.
But it doesnt matter.
They're great.
...Dana, in a way that maximizes their value for sale for profit.
Liberty thrives when government is small.
"How does that help us?
To repeal these unconstitutional illegal orders, whether it's amnesty or whether it's this president going around the Congress, whether it's in Obamacare, to restore the rule of law.
And also, I've been tested in a way no one else has.
People are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here.
By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much -- are pretty much the same.
And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
He was not a Christian.
We'll just clean it up.
And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.
I was a liberal Republican, then I was an independent, and now I'm a proud Democrat.
We are half the potential of this nation, and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses.
I wouldn't have drawn the line, but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across.
We have to shut down their internet capability.
They can't lead us.
As long as you're getting a warrant, I believe that under the Fourth Amendment, you should be able to do surveillance, but you need a warrant.
You're Unit Two."
And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.
Are you serious about this election?
squad, Yemen a success story, Iran a place we can do business with.
I know Ben wasn't talking about me.
Why will (ph) we put tax reform on the president's desk, so we can simplify this tax system?
I represented the old steel valley of Pittsburgh.
But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs.
I'll do that as your next president.
Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could.
That's absurd.
Stop playing --
You feel safe right now?
It was incompetent.
In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America.
Secondly, nobody's trusting Iran.
R&D credits that the private sectors do this, develop this innovation.
And I have to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders.
The government ought to wear a striped shirt and just make sure the game... ...is paid -- played fairly.
I do  as I travel around the country, I do pints and politics, and I go to breweries all over the place.
Eradicate those and you fix Medicare and you've fixed America, its economy and you've made people's lives a heck of a lot better.
We put in place child care support.
But the idea that you can't -- that you're just gonna grow your way out of this -- I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.
That's a blessing.
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood.
You know, we were talking about it.
Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job.
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.
Please join me in this campaign.
Heres the problem.
Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes.
And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world.
You get, like, three days where you have to show up?
If you elect me president of the United States, I will secure that southern border.
But I think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do this nationally, and this is precisely why so many Republicans are upset with Washington.
As an outsider, I tackled H.P.
Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers -- look.
In Florida, we have a background check.
It would be as much of a scourge in our past as slavery is.
I'm not the first one to say this, Dana.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well.
And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq.
We continued to talk with the Russians throughout the Cold War which is much more significant that where we are now.
I gotta build those big buildings.
He's been a negative force.
And when they're the 16-year-old drug addict in the Florida county lockup, that life is just as precious as the life in the womb.
But one of the best pieces of advice she gave me was, you know, the issue is not whether or not you get knocked down.
And when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest, then we could bring the kind of change we need.
She died within a year.
And I want colleges to get their costs down.
That's where we were.
But here is the point, Governor.
He's a bad negotiator.
One thing he did say, and I mean that.
It was legitimate.
Your millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem.
He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force.
Well, I'm glad we're having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that we lose jobs overseas, we have.
I would shore up our military first, because if you dont get the military right, nothing else is going to work.
And that requires a steadiness.
Caesar's -- excuse me -- Caesar's, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy.
COOPER: Do you want to shield gun companies from lawsuits?
And  and that has put our national security at risk.
Well, if you look at my flat tax, it actually takes the best of what Steve Forbes, Art () and many have been advocating a long time, which is a very strong pro tax code.
You can't do it with empty promised.
Conservatives, I am a conservative because I believe no one of us is any better than any other one of us.
It's a global problem and I have been very strong on -- on doing that.
You want to fix Medicare?
But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls.
We're going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic.
It's never been that way in American politics before.
I'm reminded of a great editorial cartoon.
Since it's not going to happen.
And I ended a federal entitlement.
I did it in Washington.
Zero.
We could export those technologies to places like China, like India.
They challenge the status quo, they solve problems that have festered for a long time and they produce results.
The Democrats cant even find one.
You didn't see it for a minute.
I dont just have a plan.
If I am president of the United States, we're going to send soldiers back to Iraq, back to Syria, to keep us from being attacked here and keep soldiers in Afghanistan because we must.
And we live now with the consequences.
Absolutely, they should fight to fund -- defund Planned Parenthood, and I don't think the president should shut down the government simply to send our taxpayer dollars to this group.
It's not somebody that talks about it.
So ladies and gentlemen...I am officially running...... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy.
They cause dishonesty.
We have an out-of-control Court, and I give you my word, if I'm elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings -- TAPPER: Thank you, Senator.
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea.
But, you know, a lot of this is -- is -- is pushed by big government.
And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.
You lead and you produce results.
I think the president is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS, without getting us on the ground there, and that's the direction I believe we should have (inaudible).
If youre a young student here, you have not seen a robust economy.
The Kurds deserve to be armed and I'll arm them.
It is because our Navy is so small.
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, radical Islamic terrorism.
And people are saying, "What's going on?
This is about more than replacing a D with an R. We need a leader who will help us take our government back.
We could give the Jordanians what they've asked for... ...bombs and materiel.
If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies.
MLB, NHL.
Syria's a perfect example of it.
No, no, it's really important, Dana.
You know, I have two sons.
Number one, we're really good.
And if Im negotiating in New York or in New Jersey or in California, I have like one bidder.
They tried to recall me, and we won.
Carly Fiorina.
We cant do anything right.
We are one America.
We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally.
To be clear, what I said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions that are already in play.
They don't care about American workers, they just care about bringing as many people in so they can get as many votes as they can.
It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a relationship with them.
You've called Vladimir Putin a, quote, "gangster."
It's a disaster.
He's weak on immigration -- by the way, in favor of Common Core, which is also a disaster, but weak on immigration.
Well, think if Reagan had said that during the Cold War?
So, also, we can stimulate the economy.
Finally, we'll take off the political handcuffs.
I acknowledged that.
I do.
Where has that gotten us?
The difference, though, is I will get my plan enacted.
They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there.
At least he's honest enough to call himself a socialist.
We have a -- they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington?
We should not be paralyzed -- we should not be paralyzed by the Republicans and their constant refrain, "big government this, big government that," that except for what they want to impose on the American people.
Every time you did a case, you got a warrant from a judge.
And it's why I'm an unabashed supporter of the "fair tax," which would be a tax on our consumption, rather than a tax on our productivity.
HEMMER: Wow.
And why don't we do the same thing with Planned Parenthood?
That's why I put out the proposal and that's the people I'm trying to...
Im going to make America the number one manufacturer so working men and women can have good-paying jobs again in America.
If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass the law to change it, and get a president to sign it.
Our greatest long-term strategic challenge is our relation with China.
My point is this.
We must insist on assimilation -- immigration without assimilation is an invasion.
And I will have policies  not just tax policies  that will make sure that families are strong again in America.
It's part of our large plan to reform the tax code, to cut taxes, to put in place an education system that gives people the skills and education that they need.
That means the Wall Street money managers are not risking themselves as the same way the American people are when they're going to get their compensation.
When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X.
We bombed the...
This government doesn't need more money to make Social Security solvent.
I will know more about this -- and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it's a great interview, you said it, I didn't.
You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now -- it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run.
I would give up some Social Security to save a system that Americans are going to depend on now and in the future.
I did it in Vietnam, I did it in the Pentagon, I did it in the Senate, and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of -- of financial irregularities and money that is poisoning our political process, I am ready to do that for you in the White House.
I got to act on my core beliefs.
Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran?
That was my job, to get along with people.
I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government.
So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating?
Well, you know, I was a radical Democrat before I started listening to Ronald Reagan.
You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.
I have a different idea.
And...
Creativity.
Whoa.
Alright.
Wow.
He is the party's frontrunner right now, and good for him.
We have to shut down, whether or not they're in prisons preaching or on -- in mosques preaching.
And weve got to listen to other peoples voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that Ive read in my lifetime, the lord is not picking us.
We have got to destroy their training camps over there before they can attack us here.
The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this.
We didnt raise taxes.
But what did he do?
The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.
What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating?
They'll all come back.
Gronkowski is still going strong.
I would also note that the scripture tells us, you shall know them by their fruit.
But even Benjamin Netanyahu said that ultimately, they will be stronger when theyre independent.
I'm prepared.
And I'll tell you one thing that we never talk about -- we haven't talked about it tonight.
And if we do, you know you'll have our full support, the support of the American people, and you'll have a clear path for victory.
They'll be expedited, they'll be back, they'll come back legally.
And that's what we have= representing us.
We have the ability to do it, we don't have the will to do it.
By the way, Bobby, I shrunk the size of New York States government.
They want to see an end to illegal immigration.
You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor.
Sometimes you win a war by killing murderous, evil terrorists.
What we need is a green energy revolution.
That's why I ask for your support for president.
Bipartisan issue.
We're not -- the American people -- forget about anything else, they've already been lied to and stolen from.
We're ready to start shooting."
And there should be some regulation.
Without the sacrifice of the veterans, all of our hopes and dreams are at risk.
You bet they do.
And here's the deal.
Jake listen.
We need to take a new approach of taxing -- reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our -- in our country before it's too late.
But let's just stop for a second.
We have people that have no incentive to work.
Why are the Chinese stealing are our intellectual property, hacking into our system?
That is some group of people.
...But the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together.
Hi, I'm Ben Carson, and I'm a retired pediatric neurosurgeon.
And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done.
OK.
And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.
My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William and Jack.
He was such a nice guy.
I don't think you expand entitlements when so many people are dependent on government and when the money the federal government is offering is going to be taken away from you after just a couple of years.
I'll fight and win for you and your families every single day I'm in office.
I hope Congress says no to this deal.
Common Core should -- it is a disaster.
You have a problem with ISIS.
And I'm not sending our sons and our daughters back to Iraq.
If I'm president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten.
FIORINA: Secretariat.
I will, with your help and support, lead the resurgence of this great nation.
As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans.
I think we need to remember that there are maybe some controversies about autism, but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving the medical costs in this country.
Our politicians are stupid.
And, what we talk about tonight, it's not about us, it's about the people in the audience tonight, because in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust, and their faith, and their belief that the next generation will have a better life.
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in.
And Im running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now.
When you do that, you empower our military personnel already there to work with the Kurd and the Sunni allies, to reclaim the territory taken by ISIS.
Ive got the courage to apply our conservative principles.
-- because you gave her money.
Because of bad tax policy, bad regulatory policy and, yes, bad trade policy.
My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid.
My heart has not changed, because I've always been appalled by abortion.
I'm sick of it.
There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage.
Anderson, can I come into this discussion at some point?
2.
.
And I'll tell you what a weakness is of this country: there are a lot of people who are sick and tired because Washington does not play by the same rules that the American people have to play by.
I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.
We should be for these things to create high sustained economic growth.
Wait.
They take advantage of us economically and every other way.
Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here.
The great ones will come back, the good ones will come back.
I'd take Jackson off and I'd leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers.
All of this is within our control.
So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports.
That's really good.
I don't think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.
I've gotta do it."
We do need -- we do need criminal justice reform.
So any time someone is running to be our leader, and a world leader, which the American president is, credibility is an issue out there with the world.
Let's quit blaming the people on Social Security.
Why should they when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for them?
We have to stop the money flow.
Why didn't you say it?
Why would President Rubio's approach be more effective than President Trump's?
We need a leader who's going to stand up, and actually (INAUDIBLE)... Jake, just one more moment.
But guess who pushed for that regulation?
This is our hour.
And he'll say, "Please, please, please."
That is... ...really hard to do if you don't have early childhood education... ...if you don't have schools that are able to meet the needs of the people, or good housing, there's a long list... ...We need a new New Deal for communities of color... Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed.
It just needs a corporate executive type at the top that's done it before.
And we would have a peaceful country, where people respected each other and people respected law enforcement.
He got elected telling everybody how great the American people were.
Megyn, thats a  that, you know, thats a completely ridiculous answer.
I've been patiently waiting, and I'm going to just say this about Iran.
So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton... ... is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran?
The big Internet companies.
You pick.
Nobody.
I said its because Im a neurosurgeon.
So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary.
We need to solve problems, we need to rebuild our military so we can stand up to radical Islam, we need to get our economy growing much faster by throwing out the corrupt tax code and lowering the rates.
And Senator Paul knows that that's simply not the truth.
Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries.
You may be sure that in a Webb administration, the highest priority will be the working people who every day go out and make this country stronger at home, and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a common sense foreign policy.
And actually, under the current circumstances, kids who had privilege like you do, don't go to jail, but the poor kids in our inner cities go to jail.
We need a new paradigm in the Middle East.
You want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.
And they wanted to make sure it got built.
If I'm elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them.
I would get rid of all the corporate welfare.
Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small and the powerless -- in this case, 1,590 community banks -- go out of business.
Here's the deal.
We've been around a cumulative quite some period of time.
Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.?
I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money.
We lose, we have a trade imbalance...Excuse me, John.
They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.
Why are we always the world's patsies that we have to go over there and fight their wars for them?
Its a disgrace.
They're fine with big government when it comes to that.
That is our government today.
I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
That's why they had to be destroyed.
I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies --
Weve got a choice.
You know, today the country is divided.
The party left me.
We're going to be tough at the border, we're going to be tough on all of the illegal immigrants that everybody else in this field -- we're going to be different.
I have proposed there be a Middle East NATO so that we can combine our allies there to stand up to Iranian expansion, and at the same time join together to begin to stop and this ISIL thing before it becomes an actual state.
I'll suggest a part of that was his celebrity.
I would say this... ... to the unelected, authoritarian government of China: You do not own the South China Sea.
I'm a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military.
We have work to do.
He's actually a negative force.
Divisive and with no vision.
It's important.
This is power that should be shifted back to the states, whether its the EPA, there is no role at the federal level for the Department of Education.
What do we do?
I was just saying to my colleague, I may be the last person in this audience without an iPhone.
I am, but people are upset, and they're upset for a reason about the future of this country.
Now, it needs to go further, and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered there.
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market.
I've been passionate my whole life about the Constitution.
Economic growth is the key.
They are refusing to...
It is what makes our nation different.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It was terrible.
Thats what Ill do as president, just like I did in Wisconsin.
I'll answer their questions.
This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.
All of us will be revealed over time and under pressure.
You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.
One has something to do with the defense of the security of this nation.
And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina.
John, could I follow up on this?
Of course they are.
I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky.
There's too much -- it's like -- it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team.
Because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things, there was turmoil to be followed.
So Im
My apologies.
You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid.
Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their advantage.
We work together across party lines.
The No.
You see, Governor Christie, people spend time talking about their track records, and Mr. Trump and I have every right to do the same.
Were going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message.
We have to prevent the Republicans from ripping it apart.
The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster.
I ran for governor because I was worried about my kids future.
And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia.
It is the issue in this election.
You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost.
I would give up some of my benefits to help those who need it more than I do.
Well, first of all, let's remember where we were when Bush left office.
George Washington wouldn't let his wife visit until she got vaccinated.
Get rid of the artificial lines and you will have
Im going to be the champion of the middle class where I came from.
And recognizing that it's so important, this election, because we're talking about America for the people versus America for the government.
And you get rid of the deductions, you get rid of all the loopholes, and
Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country -- we would never build in an ocean.
And, the drugs, I mean, it goes on, and on, and on.
Our taxpayers, our families are the better off for it.
We have people in Washington that dont know what theyre doing.
Have to do it.
Those are the kind of things that are going to send a clear message around the world.
Carly was at Lucent before that.
The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse.
First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works.
Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore?
What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.
Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman.
This is not entitlement, it's not welfare.
Look, the -- the deal is already done.
If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.
Everybody has a right to their God-given purpose.
But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.
Well, first off, lets remember.
So that is not by any stretch a pie in the sky.
I'm Mike Huckabee.
We're going to suspend -- I've -- I've said this for four years.
Here's the truth.
So, we're talking about -- we're talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very reasonable.
We need to have stronger families.
I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record.
I want to run as the Republican nominee.
Number one, FOX News.
I've seen both sides, but some of the greatest scholars agree with me, without having to go through Congress.
We have no choice but to do that.
I agree with states' rights.
He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."
But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies.
And it was about bringing people together.
And my grandfather loved America.
It's about the person who has done it.
The point I'm making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.
And for the very few that dont, that there are consequences to show that we treat everyone the same here in America.
There are smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things.
For eight years.
Why did you say it?
Go ahead.
Well, actually, I have been very consistent.
It's very bad for us.
With your help, with Gods grace, we can save the idea of America before its too late.
I love China.
That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes, and for God's sake, don't send Washington another dime until they stop wasting the money they're already sending there.
Well, you vote -- you oppose medical marijuana...
I did a very good job.
And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen.
Should we continue to talk with Iran?
I will be a commander in chief worthy of sacrifice of those brave Americans who have been defending our nation.
And you combine that with a plan to make manufacturing -- this country number one in manufacturing, you've got someone who's going to help revitalize and give hope to America, the place -- the place is that is the most hopeless today.
They are outrageously high in what they're charging.
As far as the wall is concerned, we're going to build a wall.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.
I didn't want -- it was my obligation as a businessman to my family, to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians.
Why not insist on structural reforms.
And I've been there.
If they don't do it within that time period, then they become illegal, and as illegals, they will be treated as such.
And these changes have been disruptive.
Enough on fantasy football.
TAPPER: Should he stop saying it?
Number one, you have people in this country that... ...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.
Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it.
And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people.
I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us.
This was deliberate to make it so impossible for smaller insurers to survive.
And there is one line on there that stands out all the time.
Look, I dont want my marriage or my guns registered in Washington.
That's what I did in Wisconsin.
I'd sign that executive order.
Ford.
I would do that to Barack Obama's executive orders.
We could rebuild the Sixth Fleet.
We got it.
That's what I said.
Not just a handful of billionaires.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything -- everything, they got away with it again.
I grew up in the '50s.
And we have nothing.
I am very, very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished group of candidates tonight.
How can we beat an enemy if our commander-in-chief doesn't have the moral honesty and clarity to say that Islam has a problem, and that problem is radical Islam, to say they've got to condemn not generic acts of violence, but the individual murderers who are committing these acts of violence.
And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places.
I've dealt with them all my life.
And to save Social Security by working across the aisle, just like Ronald Reagan.
Im a different kind of Republican.
Not assets."
Well, that's why we have a debate.
Those are the things that we need to be able to be doing.
And I open my record to scrutiny.
He's weak on immigration.
I'm delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow Republicans.
And believes that they are the ones who can fix our country.
Youre quoting an old number from the beginning of the year.
That's why I call it a compact.
I do support the use of medical marijuana, and I think even there we need to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how we're going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides relief.
And that's what they have attempted to do.
But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble.
Professional politician that can't be trusted.
Ill tell you what the world got.
And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live.
Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country.
But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly.
But you have to negotiate from a position of strength, and I think President Obama gave away too much, too early.
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values.
Do you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in a broken que on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that care isn't going to fall on to our insurance rates?
Tomorrow never seems to happen.
Today I heard it.
We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and security.
You look at these airports, we are like a third world country.
What we know is we're living longer.
The age will have to gradually rise, there is no question.
Folks, you want to --
We didnt even get four hostages out.
If Im elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office.
It's real estate.
Well, it's not a matter of what the first executive order would be, Bill.
I try to live by the rules, no matter what they are, and I was brought up that way as a kid.
And it's a huge national security failing.
Everybody makes their decisions when the time there is conscription.
Wouldn't let us be victims, and has been an inspiration to many people.
Ill tell you what.
Obama is going to be out playing golf.
And, third, I would purposely shrink the size of government.
It's not crass.
Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America's future?
Manufacturing will flow back into this country.
They don't have a clue.
As we look to the future, I want to address the income inequality, close the gap between the haves and the have-nots.
Autism has become an epidemic.
As a senator from a rural state, what I can tell Secretary Clinton, that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what I would hope all of us want, and that is keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing.
And I mean by that that not just when it comes to economic issues, leaving them to the state, but social issues as well.
A true conservative loves to create a level playing field.
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now.
First of all, Id like to just go back to one.
You know, you look at women working.
They know.... the best results, wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?
And Ive talked to a lot of the generals, a lot of our advanced people.
He is a good man.
Now
I didnt know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world.
Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue.
That's when we become Greece.
We already have too many government mandates out of DC.
He entered Washington with majorities in the House and the Senate.
Do we grow the government economy or the American economy?
No, not a comic book, and it's not a very nicely asked question the way you say that.
It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China.
They don't even have a chance.
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has.
But also where it's affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has become very affordable and it makes sense.
I am prepared to lead the resurgence of this great nation.
I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third.
How are we going to pay down student debt?
I'll tell you.
Our country is in serious trouble.
That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world.
We lost friends that day.
Should Louisiana rebuild?
Come one, we've go to change this.
I asked this question to John Kerry, I said do you believe theyre trustworthy?
Do you borrow money from China to send it to anyone?
Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built.
As a young student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it.
Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from Putin.
I don't think you'd even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren't for me.
But I'm my own man.
People wouldn't be punished for their work, and for what they produced.
TAPPER: Senator Rubio, you've taken a very different approach to the -- the question of Russia.
But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now.
We have nothing.
Not keeping the government open.
They have had our back.
It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government.
I don't think we should be sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their child for seizures.
And they're wonderful people.
I absolutely would call on them to collaborate and cooperate, yes.
And that is not determined by race.
And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they dont have a chance to move up.
It's what I've done or not done, or it's war.
Great.
Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known.
This stuff is fantasy.
It's not.
We would appreciate your help.
Hello, I'm John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio.
And I say, look, it's not Republicans' fault, it's not Democrats' fault, it's your grandparents' fault for having too many damn kids.
So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff.
And we're going to eliminate the death tax.
So what we're going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on this group or this group, is we're going to have to have a major reduction in the regulatory influence that is going on.
No, listen.
No one is answering that question from the Hillary Clinton campaign... You know why?
And you had better get rid of them, because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world.
And if I misrepresented those results or those projections in any way, I was held criminally liable.
And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr. Trump.
It seems like this election has been a whole lot about a person whos very high in the polls, that doesnt have a clue about how to govern.
I'm against anything that's bad for my mother.
That's real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office.
I'm a fighter.
And I remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion.
They sweated like dogs.
Sounds good.
And they have a six-month period to do that.
And you're right.
Let's force him to do what he says he's going to do.
I'd love to play cards with this guy because Barack Obama folds on everything with Iran.
Absolutely, we need to defund Planned Parenthood.
I've had my issues with Donald Trump.
That's called socialism.
There's a broader issue here, Hugh.
I was a person who has dealt extensively with these homeland security issues.
Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who's a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump's tax plan.
I've been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public, which was not originally agreed to.
Appreciate it.
My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids.
So we have accomplished both.
Begin to rely on us."
And with your vote and your support and your prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of this great nation.
I don't recall them calling for his resignation --
I even saw in Rhode Island.
I use it to keep up with the news on the internet.
They're right about that, but I'm doing it.
People have a chance to rise.
I'm a strong proponent of nuclear power.
I said, "What's your problem?"
I've never seen anything like it.
We have people out of work.
Its informed by my faith from beginning to end.
Many of the great business people that you know -- and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country.
What I'd like to do, and I'll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it's a major reduction in taxes.
If i were the president of the United States, I would go and look at every executive order that exists right now and determine which ones want to be voided, because the president shouldn't be legislating: not through that vehicle or any other.
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true... ...
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be with you tonight.
If their states agree, then we want more states to do the same thing.
If we're ever going to send a message to them, wouldn't this be the time, when they've issued this, sort of, massive attack against us?
And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church.
I think what you did see is that, in this debate, we tried to deal with some of the very tough issues facing our country.
And we don't even mention it.
But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad.
And this is one of the myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten people and get people to shut up.
Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.
Those are the hard numbers.
It doesn't mean we give them a free pass, or China a free pass, but, to be engaged, to continue to talk.
We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.
We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security.
But with Donald, it's a good start.
Which is balancing budgets.
Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens.
We have people that aren't smart.
You gotta be creative and imaginative.
Washington gets bigger, taxes get higher, and the American people feel more distance from our government.
We say "we're gonna protect."
I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.
We see lots of campaign conservatives.
And thank you, Facebook, for sponsoring this debate.
And if it wasnt for Social Security survivor benefit check coming into my family, we wouldnt have made it.
And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old.
So, if it werent for me, you wouldnt even be talking about illegal immigration, Chris.
Injustice does not solve itself.
By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job.
It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.
A movement to do things like provide economic growth.
She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border.
We can't grow by continuing to take a piece of pie, and dividing it, and redistributing it.
So what we need to do is support small and medium-sized businesses, the backbone of our economy, but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake... ... not just for billionaires.
And he thinks I will make a magnificent president of the United States.
Lady Liberty stands tall and strong.
There was no question because I heard when he said the statement.
You gotta be patient.
And the one that Ive advocated is based on tithing, because I think God is a pretty fair guy.
They are bad actors, bad things are going to happen.
Its time that we recognize the Supreme Court is not the supreme being, and we change the policy to be pro-life and protect children instead of rip up their body parts and sell them like theyre parts to a Buick.
So, you know, experience comes from a large number of different arenas, and America became a great nation early on not because it was flooded with politicians, but because it was flooded with people who understood the value of personal responsibility, hard work, creativity, innovation, and thats what will get us on the right track now, as well.
And they should be doing it, and they're not.
We haven't done so.
The lying and stealing has already occurred.
Hes already hedging his bet on the Clintons, OK?
It works very, very well.
He's stolen that from us, and when I'm president, I'm going to take it back.
If you do that, you don't just change the economy, you transform the lives of millions of hurting Americans.
We have to take that into consideration when we're looking at ways to regulate it.
Look, none of this is easy.
Government causes a problem, and then government steps in to solve the problem.
No.
I agree with them.
I didn't leave anybody at the altar.
The answer is pretty simple.
Very valuable.
I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.
Did she do a great job?
We don't have victories anymore.
It's like them getting mugged, and then us saying, well, we're going to mug you some more.
Not item by item.
To give them this agreement, that the president treats like the Magna Carta, but Iranians treat it like it's toilet paper, and we must, simply, make it very clear that the next president, one of us on this stage, will absolutely not honor that agreement, and will destroy it and will be tough with Iran, because otherwise, we put every person in this world in a very dangerous place.
This is absolutely disgusting, and revolts the conscience of the nation.
Somebody said, or maybe I saw it on the bill of a cap:  Lets make America great again.
It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably -- probably -- from the Middle East.
Anybody who tells me that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world.
No vision at all.
The government has tried it their way.
-- the governor's absolutely right.
I think we don't need a complicated system, which the secretary is talking about, the income goes down, the income goes down, if you're poor you have to work, and so forth and so on.
And it's not the folks on Wall Street.
And they refer back to our invasion of Iraq.
I did not make our city immune to setbacks.
We need money.
A woman gets pregnant.
I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.
"John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?"
I'd have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me, but he's not around right now to talk to.
And hiding it from the American people, so that the majority of people have no idea what our financial situation is.
You know, whatever your issue, your cause, the festering problem you hoped would resolved, the political class has failed you.
I was mentioned in the question.
That's what I've done in Louisiana, that's what I'll do in America.
And God bless America.
What are the rules on who gets to follow up.
It is why we have to simplify.
I'd just arrived at the United States Senate.
We're becoming Greece if we don't work together.
Nobody can bid.
And I have an F from the NRA, Senator.
Because we made all of those things economically feasible.
And this was the motive behind Obamacare.
And that's what's happening.
What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results.
They didn't save enough money for us to go to school.
The matter is what orders exist now that shouldn't exist?
That's why bringing down communism was so important to him.
The planet -- the future of the planet is at stake.
And there is almost no town in America that doesnt have a brewery.
Ladies and gentlemen, on day one, I intend to win a war that we cannot afford to lose.
If youre looking for someone to go to Washington, to go along to get along, to get  to agree with the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists and special interests, then I aint your guy.
The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?"
Are we not way above that?
Don't prosecute these people after the crime is committed.
Im tired of telling people things that they want to hear that we know were not going to do.
I say, "That's a terrible story.
They dont need that Social Security check.
Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now.
My dad had died.
If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well.
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around.
Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the Democratic debates.
And I saw other instances.
Theres much to do.
You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it.
I was a child of Ronald Reagan.
ISIS will be defeated.
Instead, he chose to do nothing.
Quit engaging in these kinds of speculative behaviors."
Who is best able to confront these challenges?
I've served in government at many levels.
Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.
The real issues about jobs.
That's what Reagan talked about.
You know what a leader does?
We do need curriculum reform.
I am, and the people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
Every election we talk about this.
Ours was intended to be a citizen government.
It was.
It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well.
Thats why we have to have this level playing field so we can compete with the rest of the world.
Why should we penalize productivity?
When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies.
And, I intended to tackle that issue.
Yes, I might feel more comfortable.
This country is in big trouble.
We also need a nominee, a candidate who will endorse our own principles.
I think they had a responsibility, yes.
I was in the Senate at the same time.
Its not enough to elect just any Republican, however.
And I said, "Didn't you resent America for not letting you be with your father in those formative and very threatening years?"
I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality.
I guess the coal lobby.
So I know that God doesnt call me to do a specific thing, God hasnt given me a list, a Ten Commandments, if you will, of things to act on the first day.
And its also not appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere, doesnt make the earth warmer, all things being equal.
I truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of American progress.
It doesnt scare me.
The time to act is now.
You know, diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution.
And I will suggest to you nobody's done it like Rick Perry has done it over the last eight years.
We put in place mandatory work fair (ph).
And that problem is too big regulations like the EPA, too much new taxes on business that we have seen and "Obamacare."
Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.
There's nobody out there looking out for the American worker.
But Washington is holding us back.
Instead, why wont we actually follow our conservative principles.
The president cant tell you what we got.
And now many of these candidates want to cut it.
I know the bad ones.
Heres my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida.
We can talk about corporations all day long, but my goal is to help the middle class, somebody who makes too much to be on government assistance but still lives paycheck to paycheck.
I wouldn't have a problem with that.
We have the opposite thinking.
Theyre not supposed to favor one group over another.
I think the next president ought to invoke the Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the constitution now that we clearly know that that baby inside the mothers womb is a person at the moment of conception.
You know, I -- I respect the passion an intensity.
No, it's not.
I believe -- and I may be wrong, in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.
Well, first of all, thank you all for having us.
You do a little back of the envelope.
So -- because we got to make the country rich.
Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C. for decades.
So, yes, it should be a holiday.
It wasnt too late for Wisconsin, and its not too late for America.
And the reason Barack Obama has been dangerous to this country and we better elect someone who had some executive experience, is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in the office who doesn't know what he does not know.
I know how to turn around a state because I did as governor of Rhode Island.
And she thought that was a strange response.
No problem.
We were wrong.
QUICK: Governor, thank you.
I hate the concept of abortion.
But I wouldnt do that.
He put himself through college at night.
No, it should be repealed.
And we have repair work to be done.
And I said, "I know.
And we can do it.
Rebuild our military so that our -- so that we don't deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that we're serious.
We need comprehensive
Everybody else has to be accountable, but not the gun manufacturers.
But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but he's been excellent about underscoring that.
And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.
We're talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us.
I have a debt to America I'll never repay.
And I dont mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally.
And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse?
It just doesn't make any sense.
I may be the last American out there without a smartphone.
The natural next question is who actually has done so.
I've laid out... No, John.
Please go to Chafee 2016 to learn more about me.
I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
I would get along with him.
If I was trying to destroy this country, what I would do is find a way to drive wedges between all the people, drive the debt to an unsustainable level, and then step off the stage as a world leader and let our enemies increase while we decreased our capacity as a military person.
Well, we shouldnt be putting tariffs on anything.
Trust (ph) me, I get that.
Thats exactly what we need to do in DC.
...This is a matter not of math, this is a matter of morality.
The one thing he did say about me, however, was my tone.
And, you look at the questions -- "Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?"
And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.
I -- I think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear weapons, nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands.
And here's the truth: Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from their economic and other wellbeing.
I think Americans want someone to have a track record of showing them how to get this country back on record, someone who will stand up and every day project that best days of America are in front of us.
This is a bad deal.
I know the good ones.
Probably illegal, but what the heck?
Good evening, I'm Scott Walker, and tonight, I want to thank and Mrs. Reagan, and the Reagan Library for hosting us.
In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it.
We do need to be engaged with Russia.
People can promise you something, I delivered in the blue state of New York.
We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century.
We will have great teams and great people.
Of course that's the case.
No, I would bring him home.
The real issue -- the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence, but why are they committing the violence?
That is not the reason that I have gotten into this thing.
And I hope one day we get to the point where we respect life in its fullest form across the board.
Also I believe, and I've fought for, to understand that there are thousands of people in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal, but can't get the healthcare that they need, the mental healthcare, because they don't have insurance or they're too poor.
My timing was great.
I know every one.
We put forth a pro-growth Steve Forbes plan, combined it with a pro-family plan, and thats why I think its going to work and work effectively.
It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.
It's about all of you.
So, we have a country of laws, they're going to go out, and they'll come back if they deserve to come back.
We lose to everybody.
And that's what we have to contrast.
We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall.
Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don't take into consideration the American people.
Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based.
Did you underestimate the Russians, and as president, what would your response to Vladimir Putin be right now in Syria?
I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps.
We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural gas, oil, absolutely.
When the Saints go back to repeat  we were talking about beer sales earlier.
We hear actually a lot of good intentions.
He might be on one of my courses.
Well, I havent said anything about me being the only one to do anything, so let me try that.
And thats why God has continued to bless us.
And then we have to figure out how we're going to make the tax system a fairer one.
And you're not serious about destroying ISIL.
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect.
No, I love them.
You know, when I entered this race, all the political pundits said it's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money.
Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
They're sick of politics as usual.
And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it.
Democrats at the White House on down will win, when there is excitement and a large voter turnout, and that is what this campaign is doing.
And do you believe in the Fifth and the 14th Amendment?
Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family.
Now, our country needs -- our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now.
I tell you that.
We're not going to let it continue.
No, no.
Governments role is to incentivize innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America.
And frankly I will have -- and I told him, I will have the finest team that anybody has put together and we will solve a lot of problems.
My mom was a secretary.
I love Donald Trump.
Let me say on that... ...Rand is exactly right.
It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee.
And I consider him, obviously, a friend.
It sounds crass.
Listen, you know, Hugh, it's an important point.
What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas.
Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world.
We'll find solutions.
May I respond?
We need to lower it so they dont leave.
And, it's why we talk about it, it's all about jobs.
Can I just -- can I -- Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?
I said, absolutely, you can still change the world.
"Ben Carson, can you do math?"
I want to secure the border, because if we dont, were going to get hurt and hit again.
There is dignity in self-sufficiency.
Im not a scientist, and Ive got the grades to prove it.
But also, I can't fake anger.
Im guy with a wife and two kids, and Harley.
The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.
But to destroy ISIS, it is necessary.
We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities.
Thats why I was on it.
We've heard a lot of great ideas here.
There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.
If we want free tuition at public colleges and universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it, and give the Republicans an offer they can't refuse.
And I think the "fair tax" makes more sense.
And I'm also aware that California has a drought, and so that's why I made sure I brought my own water.
If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage Ive given to, just so you understand, a lot of money.
No, I dont.
So I said (ph), "No, that's the wrong number.
They got the ex-im bank in France to support it.
Of course were for it.
That makes no sense to everybody.
It has to do with the incredibly dangerous place that this world is gonna be as a result of a deal in which we got nothing.
I think we also have to have two minimum wages, a starter, and a sustaining because how are young people ever going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them... Jake, Jake...
She sees her health insurance going up.
That's where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from.
To treat the mentally ill.
Well, now I did.
They're not supposed to be doing that.
It is time for Republicans in D.C. to fight.
May I?
The other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation.
Its not in the real world.
And this is not an endeavor that rewards that.
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets.
It's whether you get back up.
Hey, I have lobbyists.
Now, who are the people who are hurt by that?
It is broke, it is not working.
I'd just arrived at the Senate.
That is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed.
to save a company.
I don't agree that we're going to occupy and spend another decade or a trillion dollars.
You would not have to borrow money for tuition.
There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things.
They will not bring us -- believe me -- to the promised land.
So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record.
How about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying for the bailout, not working families in this country?"
I want to fix a broken visa system.
Why?
Look, over the next the several hours, youre going to hear several Republicans, all tell you they want to shrink the size of government and grow the American economy.
Well, first of all, let me say what I actually said about raising the minimum wage.
They had a responsibility, absolutely.
We work better when we are unified.
I'd want to know do you believe in the First Amendment, do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based?
And that's what I'll offer to the people of the United States in this candidacy for the presidency.
And sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right solution.
And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in the wrong direction.
And we'll fight for freedom and for human rights.
He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick.
I'm ready.
I was responsible for the convention center on the west side.
I -- well, I -- I would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system.
I know that because I buy the product."
If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of.
Economic growth is the key to everything.
My background is different.
I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee.
This is not just bad with Iran, this is bad with ISIS.
So in order to have a level playing field, which is what conservatives talk about all the time, a level playing field, then we have to have export financing.
I will run on my record all day long.
But we allowed people to keep health care.
They do celebrate more dependence on the government.
I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying.
And hopefully -- you know, Senator Graham, I -- I know where he's going to be on this, but we use Congress, and we use Congress to cut this funding.
Well, I got it for two reasons.
People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the direction of our country.
They wouldn't be there except for us.
I think we have three of them here...
But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money.
But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.
I will tell you that our system is broken.
We're always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.
Because I aligned myself with working men and women who feel that neither party and certainly not Washington, D.C., cares about them.
We can make a stronger program.
And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected.
Could lead to real problems.
They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice.
She's an American by choice.
They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance.
And that's the simple fact.
People in Washington think they were sent there to be adults and govern and do all this.
We will move them out.
I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect.
John Harwood, there's a bigger issue here.
And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers.
I think the Adams family has been shorted in the currency business.
Our best days are in front of us.
Why don't we put tax reform on this president's desk, and make him veto it if that's what he wants to do?
I was the architect.
Demonize hard-working immigrants who have insulted them.
I love the idea of a good intellectual capacity to deal with our enemies, but the fact is, if you don't have good intelligence that is reliable and honest, you won't have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions.
That the Ayatollah is a radical jihadist who really means it when he chants, "Death to America, death to Israel."
Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with.
You want to talk about balanced budgets?
We got nothing, and Iran gets everything they want.
I think he is really regretting the decline of his economy.
And it sounds great.
It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that.
The purpose is to protect America.
And I this not just as it related to unborn babies, I did it at the end of life issues as well.
I think it's a mistake to create new and more expensive entitlement programs when we can't afford the ones we've got today.
In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it.
And to expand on Mr. Carson's -- or Dr. Carson's question, let's face it, we have laws already.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.
They don't like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and send a decorated general on to disgrace.
I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom.
Thats not enough.
And frankly, what I say, and oftentimes its fun, its kidding.
Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton --
If I have a weakness, it's that I try to live by the rules.
Very simply, you guys talk over each other in Washington all the time.
Theyre making a fortune.
You gotta be -- stick with it, and all that.
You grow the government economy or the American economy.
But I think the secretary is right, and that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails.
My mom's not happy that I just did.
This is a great nation.
The ones that would prevent death or crippling.
No their not.
I'll send a bill up to Congress, and to make sure enact it...
I'll say this.
That is like shouting "fire" in a crowded theater, and that is illegal, and I would do everything in our power not just to go after those who are here who we know who are here, before they can radicalize other Americans to carry out attacks, and it's not just the ones they've arrested.
We have to end -- education has to be local.
And I do carry on occasion, sometimes a lot.
That is important.
And you think about the reasons that we're having such difficulty right now with our job market.
Will it restore the ability to defend this nation?
So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person.
Some do, but many Americans are dying to have an opportunity to grow and to create something inside this economy.
You want to talk about what we're going to be up against next year?
And Im a Republican who understands in Washington, when youre a leader, you have to put aside partisan politics to do whats right for the people.
And, John, you were just talking about what loopholes would you get rid of.
But somebody forgot to send a memo to Washington.
I will show you what they do to women.
Jake, I'll tell you -- I'll tell you why people are supporting outsiders.
Both served.
Yeah.
"Yeah.
I made a few.
I mean, who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife.
He couldn't answer the question.
This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
And the reason we disagree with him has nothing ot do with party.
Certainly, ending the wars.
This is a complicated place.
But -- but wait a minute.
That cost gets passed on to the people.
The question many were asking, Will Louisiana rebuild?
You know, Ive had a lot of elections.
Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls.
I explicitly want to shrink the size of government.
My name is Marco Rubio.
I would encourage every American to watch the videos.
But I'll end with this.
And, most people, many people, apologized to me.
And I hear their speeches.
We have to go out and get the job done.
That's an easy one.
A fish swims in water, it doesn't know it's water.
And I will make no apologies, ever, for protecting the lives and the safety of the American people.
They're not good.
And of course I'm going to defend Social Security.
And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay.
And what distributes goods better?
We could do a whole show on that.
And this is an issue on which there are stark differences.
Secondly, I certainly support that we need to tear down cyber walls, not on a mass basis, but on a targeted basis.
Well, Ill tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding.
So Im a big sports fan.
Chris, I disagree with the idea that the real issue is a constitutional amendment.
I'm honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also our love for country.
We need a president that doesn't just talk a game, but a president that's got real results.
The government cant wave a magic wand and make that happen.
I like them.
I see us allowing people to divide us, when in fact our strength is in our unity.
I'm wearing a Trump tie tonight.
Our response, which I think was smart power at its best, is that the United States will not lead this.
The left, of course, will say Carson doesnt believe in the Geneva Convention, Carson doesnt believe in fighting stupid wars.
There is a reality that I think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector.
I have been to the Antarctic; Ive been to Alaska.
Chris will tell you -- it's not Chris' fault either -- but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for -- maybe I'll blame Chris.
I think it's time to put a former federal prosecutor on the same stage as Hillary Clinton.
The purpose of my presidency
I look forward to the discussion ahead.
There's this whole area called "shadow banking."
Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not comply.
This is extraordinary.
Vladimir Putin would get the message.
We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them.
For there is a -- deep injustice, an economic injustice that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve itself.
Does anyone know this?"
I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs.
We can't even go there.
This is why people are tired of politicians.
No, no, no.
I think the times are different now.
We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.
And those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends.
The facts are the facts.
I just want a solution that would be good for the economy that doesnt destroy it.
And let me go further.
I am not sitting in the United States Senate.
They like General Motors, so they give them a pass.
To put in place all the above energy policy, but you start on day one with repealing Obamacare.
But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government.
Those of you health savings accounts.
It's great to be at Trump Tower.
What we need to do is to secure our border, and we need to do it with more than just a wall.
You either trust the American people or you dont.
But if they come illegally and they get amnesty, that is how we fundamentally change this country, and it really is striking.
I wouldn't have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why.
It was about principle.
You have to have a new dynamic, a new paradigm.
That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people.
I love the Saudis.
As Christians, we believe that the tomb is empty.
There is no such thing as a politically correct war.
You know where their United States headquarters is located?
I want every American to worry and care about how those folks in DC are spending our money.
And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.
We got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for.
Don't do it."
Thats why you get Common Core.
These are total killers.
And they're the phrases "new leadership" and "getting things done."
I know them all, but they'll pay more.
All right.
He might not take my phone call, but he would get the message, and the message is this: Until you open every nuclear and every military facility to full, open, anytime/anywhere, for real, inspections, we are going to make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system.
I tell my people that these are about a movement.
We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.
And I think this is -- this is typical Republican scare tactics.
His father was a coal miner.
Thats not the solution I see.
We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening.
And in a Webb administration, we will do something about that.
They've got nothing but money.
You're right about that.
I really am.
We've had a lot of talk over the last few minutes, hours, or tens of minutes, but no one is saying how we're going to fix it.
First let me say, We have just spent a good bit of time discussing, as Republicans, how to solve this problem.
How can you run for the Republican nomination and be for single- payer health care?
They expect to have it.
We have people that aren't working.
You know, that is an intentional feature of my plan.
She's going to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us.
And I said if you let it run, that I hate the concept of abortion.
What we need is a commander in chief that makes  clear, if you join ISIS, if you wage jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant.
Senator Cruz is precisely right.
So... You know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them.
What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that for free."
And so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and the government, powerful and powerless alike.
But you know, the fact of the matter is, she is the epitome of the progressive  the secular progressive movement.
You know, when I left law school, my first job was with the Children's Defense Fund, and for all the years since, I have been focused on how we're going to un-stack the deck, and how we're gonna make it possible for more people to have the experience I had.
Look, the left always complains theres not enough money for government.
She's fought cancer and lived through it.
But with all of the problems -- this is not an act of love.
Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid.
The government took it out of their check whether they wanted them to or not.
My family's immigrants.
And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of.
Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets worse.
We will get American workers on the side of the Republican party, and we cannot be stopped if we do.
Ever Ready, it's very high energy, Donald.
One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world.
So then we have to make it more affordable.
Good evening.
He understood what was so special about this country.
He was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons, and all of a sudden, there's a sideways attack at me.
Well, we're gonna win because first, we're gonna explain what democratic socialism is.
And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria... ... as you asked earlier today.
He wants America to succeed.
I want the men and women at home to know, if I'm commander-in-chief, I will only send you into harm's way when our national security is at risk.
But I think when Russians get killed in Syria and when he gets bogged down, I think the Russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home, maybe they should start working with the United States to rectify the situation now.
But certainly North Korea.
I don't think it helps to change our history.
And that's what's important.
And I'm glad I did it.
I'm deadly serious about doing this job the right way.
They will turn it into a mandate.
and I'll tell you why.
But if you look at the problem of drugs in this -- in this society today, it's a serious problem.
The president has made a very tough decision.
And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.
Sometimes it's a complicated situation, but some things are black and white.
Anderson, you're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
And the question is, who is going to prosecute Hillary Clinton?
I think track records are very important.
It's about judgment.
Fiscal discipline, know what you're doing.
Good evening, everyone.
I want to fix an immigration system.
Washington has become a corrupt insider game.
I have spent a very long time -- my entire adult life -- looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead, and, in particular, to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential.
And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office.
They throw down asphalt, and they throw.
Make me commander in chief and this crap stops.
I give a lot of money away to charities and other things.
I would ask them to listen to what I'm proposing, look at what I've accomplished in the Senate, as secretary of of state, and then draw your own conclusion.
Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration, and this may be the only bi-partisan issue in the congress this year.
But unlike these other three, I want to win New Hampshire.
It was real.
And he got nasty.
Divide that out.
Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.
So I only say this.
We can do that.
They are an existential threat to our nation.
So, number one, they have to respect you.
You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office.
There is something missing from our president.
So I just want that on the record.
Or the Donald Trump approach?
And I believe God has blessed our country.
I started off -- thank you -- I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said -- and I love my father.
My plan would support any state that takes that position, and would work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing.
My wife is a Mexican-American.
I like China.
We need to rebuild our families.
You know, it does take me a little longer.
But in my time in the Senate, tried to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide.
That requires an understanding of how the world works.
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement.
Thank you, CNN, and thank you Facebook for organizing this debate.
His liberal principles, he will fight for them.
And just thirdly, he was so nice.
And I think what Senator Sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have.
Its not  its our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in.
So what I will tell you about our incentives -- our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.
And you say  I said, you see, when I take someone to the operating room, Im actually operating on the thing that makes them who they are.
It's the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.
I believe we need to secure the border.
No, actually I believe that I am where the Democratic Party traditionally has been.
Quit foreclosing on homes!
Good at email.
I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there.
And I got a lot of credit for it.
So, I think gun-free zones are a catastrophe.
And I will share with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two phrases I keep hearing again and again and again.
That's not right.
Many up here wanted to topple Assad, and it's like -- I said no, because if you do... ... ISIS will now be in charge of Syria...
There is no problem we cant solve, and the 21st century will be Americas greatest century.
I learned that.
Make me commander in chief.
That is the fundamental problem going forward.
Well, a couple of things.
Not only would we solve our problems, we would have clean energy, cheaper energy here.
Well, I've learned the rules on this.
The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.
We will work with our Sunni allies.
We want out our prisoners.
And  and what we have to remember is we want to utilize the tremendous intellect that we have in the military to win wars.
But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted.
Our country doesn't win anymore.
I love riding Harley's.
And I very much agree with Marco that it should be Rosa Parks.
This is a reporter, not a high school kid.
And I dont believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content.
They believe some are smarter than others, some are better than others, so some are going to need to take care of others.
And honestly Megyn, if you dont like it, Im sorry.
That is what the next president will have to deal with.
All we have to do is look at things that work.
What we need to do is destroy their ability to attack us here over there, and then get out.
God knows they have had our back.
Because as conservatives, as Republicans, we keep winning elections.
It's why you see the pharmaceuticals getting together.
There was a lot of pressure -- political pressure, public pressure.
I am not a member of the political class.
Just excuse me, one second, Rand...
Have you ever been to Western Maryland?
We're not talking about real issues.
TAPPER: ...Thank you, Governor... ...That will ensure they repeal Obamacare... ...Jake, Jake, Jake, I just want to address that issue because you said I didn't answer, and I did.
But, heres the news to the American people, hes complaining about the lying and stealing.
That's why they had to be drawn out of there.
I agree with my colleagues.
I think that when he gets into that... Well, I think he's already regretting what he did in Crimea and what he is doing in the Ukraine.
We used to win, we don't win anymore.
I can tell you, there wouldn't have been much damage.
Well, a couple things.
This hasn't been equal time.
So I'm doing great.
I am a proven peacemaker.
You know, Hillary Clinton's always saying how Republicans don't follow science?
And there's a broader issue here as well.
Not from a translator at Univision.
This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken.
But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job.
We should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action.
We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down.
He can read about it if he wants to.
The facts that are very simple.
I intend to have their back as commander in chief.
And we finally need to tackle the basics to cut this government down to size and hold it accountable.
I'm not anti-Wall Street, but I don't believe the government ought to wear a team jersey, pick winners and losers.
Im going to take the South Carolina
Well, I did.
And, I dont disagree with ending Congress retirement program.
You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite.
And he empowered them to live their dreams, which is what I'd love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a gut punch right now.
So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
Thats very, very strong pro-family.
But I think it's important, since I understand Senator Webb's very strong feelings about this, to explain where we were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision at the time.
Time and time again, I have never changed.
We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy.
So we need people -- I'm a free trader.
You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record.
I have not changed on the issues.
But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those -- those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.
Come on, that's just not -- you scare senior citizens with that.
There's no doubt about it.
I'm from Florida.
We have to learn sometimes the interventions backfire.
What God calls us to do is follow his will.
We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this -- with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody.
I had to borrow money to go to school.
They're a great family.
That means we embrace an all of the above approach to energy.
John, I -- if I -- a lot of people have jumped in here.
And I don't want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail, who are trying to get medicine for their kid... May I respond?
And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to be an effective leader.
Correct.
I remember the polio vaccine.
Lets start off with my father being a mailman.
My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free.
I heard some people.
That is not protected religious belief.
Am I supposed to dislike them?
Well, I think a national holiday would be the day that Commander in Chief Barack Obama doesnt have that job.
I can govern by bringing people together.
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth.
And in response to that, I do drink a lot of Coors beer, so thought I would help.
May I make a response?
It will cause the economy to grow, to explode, to create more jobs.
I never get to addressed, and... ...and when I do, I'm gonna jump in.
You know, I enjoy the interplay.
Well, when you look at the celebrity of Donald Trump, then I think that says a lot about it.
Absolutely.
This is the culture in Washington.
I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary Clinton's worst nightmare.
Here at home, we'll reignite the promise of America.
(inaudible) I'm -- and I'm meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it's about judgment.
You're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
Maybe we would've gotten a deal where we didn't give everything away.
What folks want in this country is somebody to go down there and get the job done.
Why have Democrats not solved this problem?
There is international criminal organizations penetrating our southern based borders, and we need to do something about it.
And although we've made progress, we're standing but not running the way America needs to.
Do we want someone with that kind of character, that kind of careless language to be negotiating with Putin?
That was a mistake and I regret that.
And for the sake of me, I can't figure out which one is which.
And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.
The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.
Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier.
I'll let him talk about his own plans.
Right now, we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it, and it can be done with proper management, and it can be done with heart.
I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.
Right after me, and then I'll -- I'll yield -- yield the floor.
So I'm very happy that I have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a lifetime to bring together to offer the American people.
We can't.
Make him veto if that's what he wants to do.
Let's quit making it a problem for them.
I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct.
That's -- that's exactly what we need to do.
We hear a lot of good plans.
We're going to have a country again.
Thank you very much, Anderson.
Anderson, thank you very much.
We need a ground force in Iraq and Syria, and America has to be part of that ground force.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform.
A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
Let me start by saying my wife is an immigrant.
Im ready to be commander in chief.
And I'd want to know do you really believe in the Second Amendment, do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family and to protect our country?
We need to protect the people who Social Security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and food.
I don't care.
We need to keep the people who should not have guns away from them.
You know, it's real estate.
And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine.
So yes, you're going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform --
You know what they did?
I have to tell you.
We've got nothing.
Thank you, gentlemen.
You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster.
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage.
The hair doesnt make them who they are.
Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you look.
We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare.
We have to give more tools to our folks to be able to do that, not fewer, and then trust those people and oversee them to do it the right way.
I am deadly serious about changing this culture.
It's why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid.
How stupid are our leaders?
If Hillary is the candidate, which I doubt, that would be a dream come true.
Eight credit upgrades.
These are dangerous times for America.
The answer is simple.
There are politics in the boardroom as well.
So this man tells me about the manufacturing.
And if people have an opinion, its a religious opinion that is heartly felt, obviously they should be allowed to practice that and no government should interfere with them.
There's no doubt about that.
And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people... ... will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal.
It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us.
So when we complain about the Iranians, you need to remember that the Iraq War made it worse.
So important, and it's a big part of it.
I will tell you this, I will beat Hillary Clinton.
But we all have different ways of getting there.
Life is a gift from God.
But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy.
That's not the right approach to do it.
This is a beautiful place.
Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case, you want to talk about a -- a rigged game, Senator?
I'm looking out for the American worker.
But they have total control of the politicians.
And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, "this will help raise your wages."
Thank you, CNN.
Well, because she's been sitting for three hours, I think my daughter, Ivanka, who's right here.
We have got to encourage that.
Our job has to be to recognize the conflict between the two.
You see, folks, this is how socialism starts.
And believe me, if we gave them the mission, which is what the commander-in-chief does, they would be able to carry it out.
But people go where theyre welcome when it comes to job creation.
And I may be an entertainer, because I've had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with "The Apprentice" and everything else I've done.
Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly -- fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad.
But I will say this, and people are very, very impressed with what I've done, the business people.
They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it.
The time to turn the page is now.
They want to take away our religious liberty rights.
These mythical Arab armies that my friends talk about that are going to protect us don't exist.
I know some people like to say, "well, this is free money."
The nominee of this party, if theyre going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth.
When the government tries to invade the church to enforce its own opinion on marriage, thats when its time to resist.
You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow.
Reforms, everything from moral and cultural issues to economic issues.
You can't take America into bankruptcy.
I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
I won it.
I'm worried about bankrupting the American people.
I mean...
And I believe in prosperity through peace.
We have a good time.
Say, Oh, my God.
We don't have to keep reinventing the wheel.
There is an agenda there that we need to be following up on.
Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend Jim Webb for his service to this country in so many ways.
I think they have gone too far.
There were already seven committee reports about what to do.
And if people want to help us out, BernieSanders.com.
Sometimes you cannot control it.
We'll be filing it right on time.
I mean, you are in the Senate, but I hope that answers your question.
Obviously, if theres some anti-competitive issues, we have agencies to look at that.
I think our country is tired of the politicians who simply read the polls and fail to lead.
I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher.
I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and I think we have to take another look at it.
And a lot of pediatricians now recognize that, and, I think, are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done, and I think that's appropriate.
And every ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the United States in America is back in the leadership business, which is how we must stand with our allies.
Now, more than ever, America needs a leader who will go big and bold again.
We can do that in Washington.
Whether they can hire a lawyer or not.
What about then (ph), we need to focus on the ones we have.
Here is the thing about Donald Trump.
Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation.
If you make your president, I'm going to put the country ahead of the party.
If they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs, we need some jobs.
Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two.
I would let Colorado do what the Tenth Amendment says.
Get a judge to sign the warrant!
And we would focus on cures.
When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me.
It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York.
And I think we've got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchasers.
It's going to happen in this country, there are going to be further attacks.
You can trust me to do the following: that when I get on change with Hillary Clinton, we won't be debating about the science, we'll be debating about the solutions.
I think he was reading them off a sheet.
...I've always had.
Look, you either trust the American people to make their own choices or you dont.
TAPPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen.
Im gonna have to earn this.
You have all of these disastrous airports.
Yeah, absolutely.
And at that point, it's a life that we have the right to protect, and I think we should protect.
Excuse me.
That's why I started off by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential.
They quickly join the other side.
But the key thing that we're seeing now is serious challenges to this country that must change, the direction of this nation must change.
Bill, I want to say one more thing about... Not -- not on that, no.
Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it.
So under President Trump, here's what would happen:
During the course of the evening tonight, I'll have a chance to lay out all of my plans and the work that I've done behind them.
Maybe we wouldve gotten a deal where we didnt give everything away.
That's not for me to answer; it is for the voters of this country to answer, and I have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the United States of America.
I have a wonderful family.
Here is my take on things.
I look forward to a long race.
Let me tell you what I would do immediately, day two in the Oval Office.
Thats not going to grow the middle class.
And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly.
And -- and -- you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which are in everything.
And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be.
They are not our friend, believe me.
I believe we do, that is why I am running for president, and I need your help.
But I would ask the American people, look at who's been tested.
That is not right.
No, hes not lying, hes just wrong.
You know, to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person, and now asking the people of America to elect me president....how to find common ground, and I know how to stand my ground, and I have proved that in every position that I've had, even dealing with Republicans who never had a good word to say about me, honestly.
It's not easy in a democracy, but we have to keep it in mind.
Not bad.
But that means you'll put people in jail.
Not lashing out.
And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive.
Speaking for myself, I'm OK with it.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.
Now, we're going to blame the people.
And I will do that through a different system.
Well, John, a couple things.
But, you know what we're not telling them?
Its not a question of stupidity.
I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed.
I'm proud to be at odds with the coal lobby.
We've got a president who cannot bring himself to say the words "radical Islamic terrorism."
But they're not good.
So there's still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon.
I know that there are some in the Wall-Street-to-Washington axis of power who speak of all of us contemptuously.
I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me.
I do not believe that we need to wholesale destroy every American citizen's privacy in order to go after those that we know are suspect or are -- are already a problem.
To honor the people that died, we need to  we need to  stop the  Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.
And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right?
But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership.
So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them.
Thank you, Anderson.
They can't even answer simple questions.
WALKER Jake, this is -- this is -- this is... No.
I think the times are much more serious.
So I said, "That's OK." I'm proud of my net worth.
I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it.
My mothers mother could barely speak English.
Well, I -- I wanted to -- be -- make it easier for him.
And I saw that.
We'd do it again."
Its not too big to shrink.
But unless you believe the United States should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send them forth, there is always the potential for danger and risk.
I do look at what's happening in the world.
We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English.
I'd been mayor of my city.
You can have him.
That's the side we need to be on, and that's the side of the bulk of the -- of the Middle East.
Same exact amount, but you take this little beautiful baby, and you pump -- I mean, it looks just like it's meant for a horse, not for a child, and we've had so many instances, people that work for me.
There is dignity in work.
Well, obviously, you don't understand my views on homosexuality.
And I'll tell you, I can't wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you are voting for the Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to America ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon.
Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside, and I think Chris knows that, maybe as well as anybody.
I heard it myself.
We need to do zero-based budgeting.
You know, I know to a lot of people in the media, this is just a great big game, and we're the players.
I know the Left thinks we need to be protected from ourselves.
I love Denmark.
This is a fundamental choice.
And this is no particular animus of Israel, but what I will say, and I will say over and over again, we cannot give away money we dont have.
I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices.
I do not... As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people.
It's not working.
And I ask everyone in America to call Congress tomorrow and say enough is enough; no more debt.
Or, are you going to deal with the problem by saying, I'm going to give people who've done well in this country less benefit on the backend.
We need to go at the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem is that this system is broken.
And not only did I fight them and win, I lived to tell about it and I'm standing on this stage tonight as evidence of that.
But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1999... Well, let's talk about this a little bit.
That's the establishment telling us to hide our conservative principles to get the left and the media to like us.
I have worked with him time and time again on many, many issues.
But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that's target practice for the sickos and for the mentally ill. That's target.
She's been a champion of this.
Give Bernie Sanders credit.
And when America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
I am still standing.
And it adjusts it to make sure that it is not regressive.
But I learned a lot.
You know, people like Hillary Clinton think you grow the economy by growing Washington.
You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want.
But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't extensions or anything.
It was ultimately how I acted.
Our greatest day-to-day threat is cyber warfare against this country.
It's all about America.
We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will.
Neither parent finished high school.
Whatever it takes, as long as it takes, to defeat them.
That sounds like a long time ago.
And I would not stand for that as president of the United States.
First of all, she is talking about, as I understand it, a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a very dangerous situation.
We need to have some coalitions in that part of the world to go after ISIS, but we also need to send a clear message.
I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that burn our flag.
America is great!
All of those things will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that we've had now.
That's too successful."
I'm asking folks not just to join my campaign, but join a cause.
Absolutely they should be accountable.
Ive been challenged by so many people, and I dont frankly have time for total political correctness.
Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado.
You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point.
And I will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record we're talking about here.
Senator, it is not about rural -- Senator, it was not about rural and urban.
This should be solved at the local level... And so we do agree, Mike.
And to be honest with you, this country doesnt have time either.
Yeah, sure.
And I think what changed things was people in America realized they didn't want to hear what was bad about America, they wanted to know how it was going to be better.
I've worked hard for climate change and I want to work with the coal lobby.
...Then I'll buy you a tequila... ...Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.
And its because of policy in Washington and policy at the Fed.
Thats the purpose of my presidency, to grow the economy here.
I certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name is Clinton.
I think really there's a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr. Trump, but I am worried.
Could I -- could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work.
I agree with Senator Paul.
We need to grow our economy faster.
They think they are.
So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood.
Governor... Well, as somebody who has a D-minus voting record...
As far as temperament -- and we all know that -- as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament.
Well, let me just follow-up on that, Anderson, because when I think about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families.
Also, when you look at these videos, they are horrific and show just a hideous disrespect for life.
Let me just add one thing about ISIS over there.
They need to fight their wars, we need to defend American interests, but it is not in America's national security interests to have another war in Iraq.
Take it to the bank.
But, I'm also looking at what doctor -- at what Governor Huckabee talked about...
And, we come out here, and we do our thing.
And we need to stand up and say: Enough of that.
Now, let me tell you exactly what we would do on Social Security.
I personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the individual, and I think that America has to take a different attitude.
I know how to get legislation passed through Congress because I did it as a senator.
But we have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and their family from violence.
And this deal will be finished.
And, let me focus on two moments in time.
I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.
People say, "Oh, you don't like China?"
Like, the polar opposite.
And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me.
So we do need background checks.
And you know what I said to Hank Paulson?
But, I believe that the debate, and the discussion has to go further, Anderson, because we've got to do more about the lives of these children.
Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word "settle."
You can't predict it.
We got nothing but problems.
So why didn't you say it?
And I think we have an opportunity here -- and I know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated -- to get that leverage to try to get the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria.
I agree with Marco.
I will be the Ronald Reagan if I can find a Tip O'Neill.
I would even invite them to my inauguration.
When you look at raising the debt limit, it should be leverage to try to reform government.
I want to make sure that no American company leaves America because you cant find a worker.
I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever.
What's crony capitalism?
These things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the status quo.
You know, what we do in order to get the information that we need is our business, and I wouldnt necessarily be broadcasting what were going to do.
We need sound money.
And I will tell you this, around the world, I will not shake hands with, I will not meet with, and I will not agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to Israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements with them.
Colorado has made their decision.
I dont anymore.
You know, you look at the  the national debt and how its being driven up.
You know, America is a miracle country.
If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it.
I think America is just a few good decisions and a leadership change at the top away from the best years we've ever had.
And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us.
I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well.
Not responding in kind.
You ought to just be able to get over it, get used to it... ...No, sir... ...we need to honor our promises... ...before I go.
I am not a pacifist, Anderson.
I think thats a false choice.
What else we can do is that we should believe in science.
Im a long-suffering Jets fan, so my answer is no, theres no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl.
Absolutely not.
We need to stand up and start leading again, and we need to have allies, not just in Israel, but throughout the Persian Gulf.
On a serious note, I do want to say this about the Super Bowl and our athletes.
And I believe people need a leader who is prepared to make tough calls in tough times and stand up... ...and be held accountable.
Well, my plan is more comprehensive.
We can do a wall.
Think back to Garland, Texas.
You know, Putin believes in the old Lenin adage: you probe with bayonets.
Where are you gonna clean it up?
MACCALLUM: Thank you, Governor.
OK, more energy tonight.
Because we need money.
Those are the things that we need to start working on immediately to make our country stronger and make it better.
That's why they have to take so much of our taxes.
Sounds good to me, Governor.
And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China.
Going to them... ...and saying, "please, do the right thing"... ...is kind of naive.
That is absolutely not right.
Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.
I agree with what Dr. Carson said earlier.
I was a banker and I was proud of it.
Thanks for watching tonight.
And a movement to do what?
But we need to tell young people the truth.
(APPLAUSE) This is not a cage match.
I know what it's like to solve problems at the local level because I did it as mayor.
Its an example of what Millennials are doing to change America for the better.
I won't be doing that.
So you -- the -- the first chance...
And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do.
That is what my whole life has been about.
Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.
But I have not changed on the issues.
Karen and I have seven children.
I am not accepting any money from anybody.
I'm the only guy on this stage -- you know, everybody has an "only guy" -- "I'm the only guy this; I'm the only guy that."
He buys and sells politicians of all stripes, hes already
The one thing that we do not talk about enough is how stable families are vitally important for the middle of America to be prosperous and grow and be safe.
But let me respond.
I mean, literally, the Senate -- what is it, like a French work week?
It turns out we knew something was wrong.
And I hope that I sound logical also.
They keep  they called me Veto Corleone.
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.
It's extraordinarily wrong.
She was a great CEO.
I absolutely believe that what the president did at the time was right.
Ronald Reagan knew how to go big, and go bold.
I absolutely will do that in DC.
But America is not a planet.
I do believe in miracles.
Let me say, climate change... OK. A skeptic.
No, I don't.
They want to provide for their family.
And, how he stood up and said, you know what, this is something new that our country needs, and our party needs.
Well, I hate to say it, but Donald Trump has a bit of a point here.
If somebody's already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more?
Whether it's... Did you hear what I said?
So I would bring him home.
And you cant be happy about that.
Thank you very much.
We need to use electronics, we need to use drones, we need to use FBI, DEA, and ATF, and yes, we need to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa, and when they overstay their visa, we need to tap them on the shoulder, and say, "You have overstayed your welcome, you're taking advantage of the American people.
I think we have to say that is true for everybody going to college.
Look, we know what it takes to secure a border.
We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.
I know we have a president who wants to do whatever he wants to do, and take his pen and his phone and just tell everybody what he thinks is best.
It was the...
America's at a crossroads.
They will never make America great again.
I'll talk to them.
But it is very different from what is going on today.
I think he means somebody who hasn't been a career politician, and who's been out of office for awhile.
Weve got to do it.
And there's no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully.
And thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight.
(APPLAUSE)
I think Assad's invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder.
It's kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about.
But it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street.
They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.
Thats what government is supposed to do.
They all want me to support them.
They know we will be committed to victory.
I'm the one who is taking that on.
And I tweet a lot, too.
Anderson, I think we are learning... Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi.
And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank.
I was recruited to H.P.
My mission as president will be to raise incomes for hard-working middle-class families and to make sure that we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with: If you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
Most importantly, I think I understand leadership, which sometimes requires a tough call in a tough time.
Well, I'll tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won't even make a dent in it.
And if we dont tie their hands behind their back, they will do it
Sure.
The next president is primarily elected not just to know things, but to know what to do with the things that he knows.
Very simple.
I mean, this is whats wrong.
I will stand firm.
It's clearly not working.
We need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts, not the political forces in the White House, but our military experts about how many more we sent in.
We must lead in this nation again, and some tough calls are going to be required.
This nation has been great to me, and that's the only way I know to pay you back.
It gets tougher when they get out of the womb.
Nobody -- I could stand up here all night.
Very, very proud of it.
That's the better approach.
It is critically important in the 21st Century.
Well, I think it's wonderful and all, but I did it a little bit half-heartedly, but I do mean it to a large extent.
Do we want someone like that to be negotiating with Iran?
Well be the next Greece.
Let me -- let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today.
You know, every election we hear a lot of talk.
Its not going to be the case.
Let me just tell you about the lenders.
They won't accept it.
I'm ready to be that leader.
They will not stop with it being a suggestion.
I think you're being a little rough.
Now I'm not doing that...I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what?
The question always is, what works better, the private marketplace or government?
I let you speak.
There's goes as much -- a further step beyond.
Give Pelosi and Reid credit.
And we have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand.
So I have not changed.
That in fact we don't need this massive government intervention to deal with the problem.
"Marco Rubio, why don't you resign?"
Well, first of all, let's look at the facts.
I think that really goes to really the judgment.
All these other people want to cut the hell out of it.
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald.
But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in weddings, or bakers.
Not good.
If you want a real... A second opinion?
You know, that's what the PC culture is all about, and it's destroying this nation.
You know that.
This wasnt incidental.
I'd make darn sure that we absolutely believe the 10th Amendment.
These are not the nice, sweet little people that you think, OK?
Here's the thing that I would ask Donald Trump in all seriousness.
We will do very, very well, very, very well.
Just make sure your standards are high.
Its not to transform the culture by trying out some ideas that some people think would make us a different country and more diverse.
I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy.
No, look.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
Im the son of a pastor and evangelist and Ive described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic.
We've got to stop this culture of government dependence.
She's the real opponent, she's the real problem.
I propose to reverse that and get this economy moving again.
I've got the backbone, I've got the band width, I've got the experience to get us through this.
To restore common sense.
That could be handled later on.
I don't feel so safe.
Thank you all very much.
I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me.
I would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic question.
Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the workers who helped to make them.
That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy.
And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right.
I said, "I don't know."
But let -- I'll get to that.
Well, you know, the thing is that... Yeah, I was talking about (inaudible) -- well, let me...
That means medical.
Im proud of my dad, and Im certainly proud of my brother.
I have said to the people if they want me to do this, please get involved.
I don't think anybody should expand Medicaid.
She holds a scale in her other hand.
She can't run any of my companies.
I hope that answers your question.
And it will be actually a friendlier world.
One final thing.
Whether they have a birth certificate or not.
And they would know that the commander-in-chief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary, but people wouldn't bully us anymore.
Number one.
Its always that the government figures that they can do this off the backs of people, many of whom are poor, and depend on that money, and I just think its fundamentally lying to people and stealing from them, and we shouldnt be doing it.
And that's how we were successful.
I would not place one American life at risk unless it was absolutely necessary.
That's what's wrong with the politicians in Washington right now.
I think that, like most people that I know, I have a range of views, but they are rooted in my values and my experience.
I got a great deal of admiration and affection for Senator Sanders, but I -- Bernie, I don't think the revolution's going to come.
And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates.
So be very, very careful.
It is real simple.
I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you?
ON the other side, you have so many Republicans, and what do they care about?
I'm on the Reagan side of this.
I would just say this, we've heard a lot of great ideas up here, and I agree with what Senator Rubio said.
I want a government so small that the individual has a chance to thrive and prosper.
Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.
I would like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration.
We don't know anything about that.
We listen when people talk.
"America was worth the wait."
If we don't stop them over there, they are coming here just as sure as I stand here in front of you.
And, I think he is doing a good job.
We keep winning elections, and then we don't get the outcome we want.
I mean, its ridiculous in the 21st century we are questioning whether or not () things are the appropriate way to go.
A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what?
We have to end Obamacare, and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that.
This is the only time I've had a chance, let me finish.
And everybody gets treated the same way.
I have no argument with having a strong leader, and to be aggressive where aggression is needed.
And by the way, I'm not even saying that in a -- that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country.
I've got one more question for you then.
When they call, I give.
Or would you rather take less later on?
That's what's wrong with politicians in Washington right now.
And frankly, so has everybody else in my position.
You don't have seven children and bring them into this world if you're not optimistic about the future of this country.
And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
We need to reverse that.
If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay.
And she wears a blindfold.
She'd be a great president of the United States because the leadership she brought to H.P.
Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves... ...to make (ph) centers (ph) of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization...
Russia is a bad actor, but Vladimir Putin is someone we should not talk to, because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the other side, and we have all of that within our control.
How about we get the government to do what they're supposed to be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values and American families.
No, it speaks to the fact that I don't know those --
And we're not going to authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win.
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone.
I didn't want to -- excuse me.
I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
I believe -- and Pope Francis made this point.
So, I think a flat tax, eliminating the tax code, getting rid of all the loopholes, is the way to go, and it's the way we get America going again.
So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly.
Well, I would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name.
And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
Abortion would be no more.
I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person.
Well, I think the bully pulpit is a wonderful place to start healing that divide.
And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight.
And this does not need to be done.
We need to be not paying out benefits to people who don't really need it.
Im a limited government conservative.
We can do this.
I know, but why did you say it?
Now, I revere my late mother, and she gave me a lot of good advice.
May I make a response to that?
I run for president because I believe that we cant just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
What we have to do in America, is honor blue-collar work again.
Nothing.
They can have it anyway you want.
They target us again, and we won.
Because when I look at what is going on with the United States of America, I see a lot of things that are not logical.
They can't.
Money, manpower, technology... ...mostly, apparently, leadership... ...the kind of leadership that understands how to get results.
And let me just tell you.
It wasn't how bad things were, it was how to make it better for everyone.
I don't think anybody has cut that much government anywhere, at any time.
It's part of who I am.
I knew when to get out.
But we will be respected outside of this country.
If this country that does not keep its promise to seniors then what promise can this country hope to be trusted to keep?
I believe that there is a consensus in this country.
We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country.
I am happy to be part of this debate.
So there's an issue of American credibility out there.
And this is what this is a part of.
This is why, fundamentally, we have to take our government back.
America is back in the leadership business.
But let me say one more thing.
So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that.
If we means test Social Security, it means that the government decides whether or not I deserve it.
But actually I am.
So, here's the deal.
I'll tell you why; it's very simple.
It is tied together, and, once and for all, we need a leader whos gonna stand up and do something about it.
I probably have to have a food-tester.
If you make me your President, our best days are ahead.
So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom having trouble, you know, making ends meet.
I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today.
I would change them.
I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours.
I think I'm the first senator.
That's was hard work.
Congratulations.
I see my good friend, Senator Gillibrand, in the front row.
You are like me.
And if you look at the question, I was in business.
I...
When youre responsible for protecting the lives of the American people, then what you need to do is to make sure
You see?
And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are.
I'd like to jump in.
We don't win.
As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure.
If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up.
It was about leadership.
We've all done great things or we wouldn't be on this stage.
So I'll have a team that will be -- that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength.
If we learn to lead in the Middle East right now, a coalition will form behind us, but never they do it if we just sit there and talk about it.
I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country.
I think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president.
But here's the best solution of all.
But the other thing that I want to bring up is, I mentioned something earlier.
First of, Jake, I don't yield to anybody on how to enforce the law.
And before I say it, I have to say this.
Voters should assess the candidate's experience, character and vision for the future as they make this important decision.
And, the question in this election is whether you and I still have the ability to give our kids a better future.
That means everything.
Well, two things.
She is clear-eyed and resolute.
How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about?
I'm too trusting.
And, sometimes we're held up in contempt by people who write columns, but, I guarantee you to every person on this stage there's something deep inside of us that would cause us to give up our livelihoods and step out on this stage and fight for the people of America.
And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that.
The more our children learn, the more they will earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized... ...but will become American citizens... Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk.
I think weve seen Wall Street really blossom and do very well when the rest of the country is struggling.
I said that I have answered all the questions and I will certainly be doing so again before this committee.
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
We can fix these things.
We need a commander-in-chief who will stand up and protect this country.
These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life... ...and I will as president as well.
Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening.
Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt free, and all the issues.
WALKER ... and as we all know...
When you find steel, you stop.
They will not.
That America can be counted on.
I would also just say this.
I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work.
No, I didnt know.
You go to mandatory treatment.
Every governor on this stage would share this much with you.
And I think what he is trying to do now is save some face.
And the most dangerous person in any room is the person who doesn't know what he doesn't know.
That's gonna be the real growth engine.
I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool.
I know that.
I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families.
I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party.
Where is that good"?
Now, you dont have to believe that climate change is real.
I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem.
You're certainly not very good.
I think the last eight years in the private sector have allowed me to see government from the outside, and I think that is a positive thing.
You can't send your troops into harm's way unless you give them every opportunity to be successful.
And we also need to talk about health care at some time, because we agree on the goals, we just disagree on the means.
I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long -- what the FBI's asking about.
There's been no crowd like this.
You cant just be an outsider, you cant just be someone who throws stones at Washington.
It's kind of basic.
That's the wrong number.
The fact is if we don't address what's costing so much, we can't throw enough money at this.
And life would be really deemed precious.
Ooh, that's a tough one.
Does my family like me?
An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.
But I want to win as the Republican.
I will do that in Washington.
Actually going to do something to help the American worker.
This is the fantasy...
The future is what we make of it.
I can't do it.
And the politicians always say it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.
It's not great again.
Let's start talking about that on this stage and stop playing -- and stop playing the games.
We've talked way too much to him.
So, I think we're just at the beginning, but I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who use marijuana.
But I will say, we have a debate here tonight, and we will have an opportunity to explore those areas, and Im looking very much forward to demonstrating that, in fact, the thing that is probably most important is having a brain, and to be able to figure things out and learn things very rapidly.
We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be -- we ought to send our surplus.
Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen?
This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do.
Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care.
They need a commander in chief who knows what the hell theyre doing.
So I've watched the politicians.
And if you elect me president, we will bring incredible growth back to this country.
But we don't know.
We honest to god are here to get this country back on track.
Let's start talking about those issues tonight and stop this childish back-and-forth between the two of you.
What we need to think about instead  you know, I was asked by an NPR reporter once, why dont I talk about race that often.
So I think it's pretty clear what their obvious goal is.
That's her answer to grow the economy.
It should be what are your substantive positions... You want me to answer that question?
The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now.
Nevertheless, one of the things that I think people don't always understand is how accountable a CEO actually is.
No, I dont think we need a military response, but we need a coordinated response.
But  and I am discussing it with everybody, but Im, you know, talking about a lot of leverage.
Absolutely, I do, and Im gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win.
Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth.
Were going to need workers in the
And so, that's why I'm for rehabilitation, why I think the war on drugs has been a failure.
Id rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life.
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.
... in order to make it possible for them to afford their education.
To me, it's not just about taxes, cutting taxes.
I want to talk to the folks at home.
And they need to be destroyed.
And instead of just saying that a college degree delivers prestige, lets celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills, using training in high school and community colleges
And I don't take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and progressive commitment.
And our nation must solve this one.
We did throughout the Cold War, and it would be a big mistake not to do it here.
We must win this election.
I think, actually, people are looking for that in Washington now.
That's all I can say.
And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you've changed the world.
So they put together this.
Good luck making something out of this mess."
How are they going to beat ISIS?
Which is why -- and I see the chair of the DNC here, look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the kitchen table.
I want a job."
I think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by Lady Liberty and Lady Justice.
I don't have to brag.
On the issues.
So we need new leadership -- yes.
You want to talk about cutting pollution.
...This is a giant battle in the world today... Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own.
And we have to restore the sense that the Amiracle (ph) will apply to you.
I would say that I would and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York -- a permit to carry.
We need a leader who will lead the resurgence of this great nation and unlock its potential once again.
This is a moral issue.
...I want to make... Well, let's understand that when we talk about Syria, you're talking about a quagmire in a quagmire.
And it's an honor to have everybody here.
This is the unholy alliance that people need to know about between right and left.
I mean, Chris will know about that.
The leadership of Ronald Reagan and my...
Let people play, who cares?
We need to raise public consciousness.
And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race.
We need to save this program for the good people out there who have paid into the system and need it.
You know why?
And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.
And if they do that in Florida, they will take the child away, they will put the parents in jail.
They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them.
Now, in my view, the only way we can take on the right wing republicans who are, by the way, I hope will not continue to control the Senate and the House when one of us elected President...
All the time.
They dont think the government is working for them.
If I were president, I would try to be one who says, you know what, I'm a Reagan Conservative.
If I am President of the United States, you will be welcomed in America.
That's what's happening with Russia, and... Let me tell you -- I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said.
I think it's a good product.
We need to have a President thats going to pledge, as I have.
Don't forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it.
In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it.
That's what I would do as commander-in-chief in this circumstance.
And we need the right people.
I believe were at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world.
John, I think the reason voters are so frustrated is nothing seems to change in DC.
We have to stop, and it has to stop now.
Yeah, I think its one thing to shrink the size of a state government, but its another thing to actually get something accomplished in Washington.
We need that thinking.
But Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake...
They want to see it, and we all do.
So I think youre on the wrong side of this if youre still arguing for a single-payer system.
And with that blindfold she is saying to us that it must be true, it can be true that in this country, in this century, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter how you start, it doesn't matter your circumstances, here in this nation, every American's life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their God-given gifts.
And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child.
We want all these things, and we dont get anything.
And its because we have this corrupt connection between Wall Street and Washington.
How do we do it?"
Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.
But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.
I know a lot of Republicans brag  you all can clap.
What I say is what I say.
Excuse me, what am I saying?
You know, and a situation like that, of course Obamas not going to be able to do anything.
As someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in Washington, I would lump Wall Street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me.
If I was president, I'd say, "Congratulations.
Because, you know what, God gives me unconditional love.
With a couple of additional tweaks, we know what this will do.
This will be the place to come when it comes to a job.
We need to bring people together in Washington.
They can be great role models for our children, and Im, obviously, a Saints fan.
How stupid are they?
But I do hear she's a lovely woman.
I have to respect the person that, if its not me, the person that wins, if I do win, and Im leading by quite a bit, thats what I want to do.
That is the way to get it done.
Brett, can I  Brett, can I jump in on this one?
It's because you know what happens if someone's been in the system their whole life, they don't know how broken the system is.
But, we do have to examine, how are we going to defeat ISIS?
We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country.
They're not so stupid.
The fact is that we don't want to hear about your careers, back and forth and volleying back and forth about who did well and who did poorly.
because leadership is not about me, it's about our country.
And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why -- because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility.
At the end of the day, America has got to work.
I know we can afford it, because we're going to make the wealthy pay for it.
We can grow economically and restore Americas leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up.
You have to fight hard for these appointments.
And I intend to keep talking about the issues that matter to the American people.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
If he really believes that, he should be back here.
Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper.
I think he's tapped into an anger that people feel.
And I am pro-life.
You can measure the climate.
I know beer.
Pardon me?
And we can't treat a nuclear Iranian government as if it is just some government that would like to have power.
So nice, thank you very much.
But if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy, a focus, the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our relationship with China.
Let me translate that for you.
I promise I would have gotten it.
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing.
Look, if you want a Republican thats going to grow government spending, if you want a candidate who is going to increase taxes, Im not your guy.
If you want somebody thats going to do and say the things that cant be said, cant be done, Im asking you to vote for me, to join my cause.
As Americans, we believe that our best days are always ahead of us, and they can be again.
And guess what?
And there is no reason that you can't be perfectly fair to the gay community.
I promise if I wanted it, I would have gotten it.
You have to be someone who can actually bring people together across party lines.
You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe, especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident that we would deeply regret.
It's time for real substance and real experience.
I will spend every ounce of energy to stop it.
Because they can get away with it.
Early may.
They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe.
And we need to do this because of their aggression in the region.
She was right.
If he'd like to play, that's fine.
And you know  you know, Senator Paul?
We hear all this discussion about well, I would do this, or I would do that, when the fact is, the border is still porous.
What you need is a strong American leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation.
I learned so much.
We owe that to American business.
And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier and better lives.
So let's go back to the tax code.
Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English.
Give me a break.
And -- and -- and I -- you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don't need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem.
First thing I'd tell the American people, whatever it takes to defend our nation, I would do.
When the kid gets sick, you dont go on vacation.
Well, there's a lot that I would like to do to build on the successes of President Obama, but also, as I'm laying out, to go beyond.
You know what he said to me?
I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security.
Let me finish this one thought, Jake.
And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life.
I completely agree that what's at stake here is the future of this nation, and the future of every American.
I will be that new leader.
So to answer your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse.
And, thank you everybody.
They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant democracy we know we can and should have.
And make this century a new American century.
But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one.
And I'll say this for the Libyan people...
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us.
Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations.
How do we make it more affordable?
We've worked hard our whole life to provide a better family -- a better life for our family.
And ultimately thats what Im going to try to do.
The answer is to give people the skills and the education so they make far more than minimum wage.
So that's key.
That will change everything.
But for me, this is about bringing our country together again.
But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can't be done.
And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm.
Thats why it ought to be a transformed system.
But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique.
She doesn't shield her eyes from the realities of the world, but she faces outward into the world nevertheless, as we always must.
Stop -- and stop playing -- and Carly -- Carly, listen.
I can do that.
So that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward.
I'd like to actually... ... respond.
Let me just respond to something the secretary said.
To young people here, I will ask you to work a little bit longer because we have to.
What else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who might be a Fort Hood shooter or a detainee at Gitmo?
We need to get better training, better skills, including vocational education and training in community colleges.
He could have chosen to do anything to solve this pro -- this problem.
And I think we're going to need both of those in Washington to get anything that we're talking about up here accomplished.
And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be -- they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving.
I would go on to add that I believe all
But I'll be there.
Because what I worry about is what will happen with ISIS gaining more territory, having more reach, and, frankly, posing a threat to our friends and neighbors in the region and far beyond.
And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.
You know, right now they know a lot and look at what is happening.
Well, I would really appreciate that.
Where can we find common ground?
Thats why you get Obamacare, and they want to tell us what kind of insurance to buy.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
So, if you want someone who is -- can stand up in front of you right now and say I have done the hard job, I have taken the risks, I am your person.
And they seem to think that that was what caused it.
I do, however, believe in Reagan's 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here.
I think we'd get some takeovers, and that was one.
I would call up the head of Ford, who I know.
We're going to be actually out there trying to create a better life for hard-working Americans.
because the Democrats don't want this issue solved.
I am going to be testifying.
And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States.
I would get rid of it.
And I don't think the Congress is going to pay for a lot of this stuff.
And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation.
But you -- you would stipulate, Mr. Trump, but not everyone agrees with you.
I want to quote to you a president.
Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what?
(LAUGHTER) And he got nasty.
If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit.
... a lot of those people, though, and I'm going to echo what Senator Rubio just said.
There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again.
I think Susan B. Anthony might be a good choice.
But our country needs new leadership to move forward.
But its going to take leadership who sees the greatness of this country, and who believes that once again we can be one nation, under God.
Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin that's taking place.
I see you know the answer.
And getting this government off your back and out of your way, and letting you succeed.
That, I can tell you right now.
If you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem.
I said, you can do the same kind of thing.
You better believe I will, because I'm tired of liberals always having a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we don't.
I was working on the board because of education.
So I don't think that the federal government should override the states.
He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing?
BASH: So is a voluntary program the way to get the Social Security system solvent again like that.
I want to reverse that decline.
My father was a bartender.
Well, look, you know, when people say that -- it's always the Republicans or their sympathizers who say, "You can't have paid leave, you can't provide health care."
But you ought to acknowledge the government doesn't do a very good job at it.
I don't need the rhetoric.
Let it be for everybody.
I think, though, government is too big now.
But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it.
They always keep our equipment.
I'm campaigning because I think I have the right combination of what the country needs, at this point, and I think I can take the fight to the Republicans, because we cannot afford a Republican to succeed Barack Obama as president of the United States.
I intend to be a commander in chief that can win a war we cannot afford to lose.
But...
Wouldn't you want to know if they complied?
We can have far more clean energy.
I think, honestly, it's a gesture.
I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.
I remember it like it was yesterday.
You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result.
They need to learn English, adopt our values, roll up their sleeves and get to work.
Would we not all be worried to have someone like that in charge of the nuclear arsenal?
In other words, you're not going to tax anybody for what they earn, whether it's worker whose working by the hour or whether it's a hedge fund manager.
All the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs, helping people get the skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed.
Well, let me address college affordability, because I have a plan that I think will really zero in on what the problems are.
I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.
I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead.
So Ford will come back.
So, we must invest more in the treatment of drugs.
If Im our nominee, we will be the party of the future.
I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.
It's good to be with you.
We need to do it because of the way they treat their own people.
Look, it's fine to talk about all of these things -- and I'm glad we're talking about these things -- but I've actually done them.
But I look at this country today, and I look at how divided we are, I look at how politicians are always posturing and issuing sound bites but never solving problems.
You just can't do it.
After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.
I will always tell the truth and do what I said I would do.
I'm a Catholic, I believe life begins at conception.
That I can tell you.
That is why ISIS grew.
I just want a job.
I would throw them all out.
They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California.
It's time for you to go."
I'd put my wife on there.
We need an outsider to run our party and to win the next election.
That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country.
What I would think is that we ought to recognize that women are not a special interest group.
Nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country if we want to go after this problem.
Absolutely, John, I would go further.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again.
You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington.
You know, I -- I agree completely.
And so these are important issues, and we should address it.
I like that.
You've got no argument from me.
But I understand to change Washington, you have to understand government as well.
We dont win anymore.
We don't need anything.
I will -- well, you've let a lot of people go over their time.
If Im our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck?
Can we stop?
You know, I came to Las Vegas in, I think, May.
Well, I remember that meeting very well.
Just get me a job.
Well, I think Mr. Putin is going to regret what he is doing.
So, I know this much, that what the American people want to hire right now is somebody who believes in them.
But I'm here to say that I think we are, in fact, the A team.
I said, to me, I think the real focus shouldn't be -- you know, Hillary Clinton talks about the minimum wage.
Well, thank you very much.
You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about.
And I said, well, how are we gonna get them to comply?
And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book.
We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job.
Well, I mean right here.
So Uber, Twitter, and then I communicate with my family.
For the people who say we can't do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.
You look at what's going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we're fighting ISIS.
I said, "I don't need it.
Look at my family.
You see, Jake, I'm pro-life.
I think there's a certain truth to it.
That's not what the American people want.
And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence.
I think I'm actually a very nice person."
And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay?
And, the only way -- no... ...Chris... ...Chris...
I have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the congressional process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to paralyze what we're doing.
I will begin tomorrow to filibuster it.
It will be an America that be strong and resolute, and will once again be able to stick out its chest and say, "we truly are the greatest nation in the world, because we live our lives that way, each and every day."
We need a doer, not a talker.
I want to address climate change, a real threat to our planet.
Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.
I don't think -- you're not stating my views right.
It wasnt just how I took on those political battles.
I think this was a very bad deal.
Well, I think that's pretty obvious.
And that's the kind of thing that helps us to grow.
I know this sadly from personal experience.
I made it the old-fashioned way.
And when you want to, check it out.
We need a president who can solve our problems, bring us together.
That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that.
And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward.
Thats how dangerous these times are.
And you know what?
Believe me, folks.
Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I'll tell you another problem.
Well, you know, I've just explained it to him.
I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement.
And if youve had no crops at all, you dont owe me no tithes.
They do bear some responsibility, but I think he probably didn't do it, not for that reason.
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.
We can contribute to that and be economically sound.
It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben.
Which is what we're gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.
So I'm all for vaccines.
We need a nominee who is going to throw every punch, not pull punches, and someone who cannot stumble before he even gets into the ring.
And when I look at Washington today, we need to bring us together.
Because if you are, you need to elect someone who's deadly serious about changing this culture.
Number one, I'd ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue?
We can do that, we don't need anyone's cooperation to do it.
Thank you for that question.
American workers always get the first preference, but if you cant find an American worker after you advertise at a competitive wage, I dont want you to be at a loss.
And those who want to divide us are trying to divide us, and we shouldnt let them do it.
You know, I think Mr. Trump is a wonderful entertainer.
And I am too.
It won't happen.
I know you gave him a big hug, and if you want to give him a big hug again, go right ahead.
I think he's an intelligent man and will make the correct decision after getting the real facts.
But I'm glad I won.
I don't know if you remember... ... Donald... ... you remember the -- the rumble?
-- let me -- well, let me just explain.
I want to follow up because I think underneath Juan Carlos' important questions, there is such a difference between everything you're hearing here on this stage, and what we hear from the Republicans.
Here.
I hate to hear it."
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us.
We need to be focusing on what fixes this country.
This is what's going on.
So look, corporations ought to exercise some responsibility.
I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to -- I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac.
I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do the right thing, and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people together.
I want to tell you that.
Heres what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past.
I would invite him, I actually would say.
And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and make this threat our opportunity.
And it's just not going to work.
And I think we need to acknowledge it, and it is hypocritical to still want to put poor people in jail... BUSH: I don't want to put poor people in jail, Randy.
You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore.
We can get there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential leadership.
Let me give you one quick example.
Not a very pleasant place to be.
It is disgusting, and the American people need to hear it... ...we shouldn't be fighting with each other.
And, they're always going to say, "Well, we're going to fix this one day."
I don't -- look, I don't think anybody should be expanding Medicaid.
The talk has got to stop, the action has got to begin.
Everybody talks about how theyre going to change the taxes, grow the economy, nothing seems to change.
I think we have a chance to rescue the idea of America, but if we dont do it now, four years will be too late from now.
And that's not -- I'm not going to be bought by anybody.
Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America.
We need to know who our neighbors are.
Nothing's gonna get done.
So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success.
Well, this goes to the question you were just asking.
You just don't make promises like this.
I am completely pro-life, and I believe that we should have a culture of life.
We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work.
When I talk about having the opportunity for people to rise again, its not just because it polls well.
And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change.
You'll see me on the floor of the Senate tomorrow filibustering this and saying enough is enough, no more debt.
We've got to stop these wars.
You know, I mean youre living in a world of the make-believe, Chris, you want to know the truth.
Let me just add this.
We need to tell folks who want to come here, they need to come here legally.
You can measure it.
Ill be my best to do that, and thank you for your support.
I would say hes incompetent, but I dont want to do that because thats not nice.
No, you're wrong -- you're wrong about this.
I'm not -- my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage.
I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply -- you know, going down.
I'd put my mother on there.
If youve had a bumper crop, you dont owe me triple tithes.
Work requirements and time limits.
We need to get realistic about this.
We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I'm talking about it everywhere I go, and we need to join the rest of the advanced world in having it.
And I think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face, particularly working moms.
And it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids.
It's about how you balance the risks.
It would be very difficult to administer, it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform, when we finally do get to it.
You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders?
I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley.
Can I -- can I -- can I just... Can I correct... My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons.
I don't want it.
I will.
It can happen.
And she holds her torch high, because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a very troubled world.
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems.
You can't do nothing.
We can't afford another four years of that.
In my world, we'll focus on energy independence and a clean environment.
So, I would bring the gun lobby in and say we've got to change this.
I would do so much better than that.
And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.
But they need to see leadership, support and resolve from the United States of America, and we can help them defeat ISIS.
We need somebody who can lead.
We've already got a great talker in the White House.
But I want to make sure we're going to cover everybody, not what caused the problem last time, but what could cause it next time.
Boy, am I glad I did it.
You want to know what I'll do as president?
We have to honor the carpenter, the plumber, the electrician who can actually build something.
I will get along -- I think -- with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable -- stable world.
I think that is -- it raises so many issues.
But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who dont seem to ever think that they get a fair deal.
The Mets are going to win tonight.
I hear your wife is a lovely woman...
And I said, wow, I can't believe it.
I don't want it."
I want to end these wars.
I won't back down... ... on any of these issues.
is in trouble, but its not beyond repair.
And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends.
There will always be a Bush or Clinton for you, if you want to go back to war in Iraq.
Jake, may I just say... Jake -- Jake...
A strategy would be how do we confront Iran?
So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane.
If I am president, he wont think about that.
All those folks who are being hung over in Louisiana from drinking and celebrating Drew Brees winning it, I think it would be a great day to take off.
When people ask me, whose fault is it?
You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.
We're gonna be there very soon.
And let's talk about what leadership is.
And it's something that can be done, and I get questioned about that.
I don't know.
Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage.
And I want to do more to help us balance family and work.
Well, I have also said, if anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to listen.
We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes... You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again.
Such a nasty -- such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor.
If I am
I will find -- within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy.
...I will.
But I have to say...WALKER This is actually what's wrong -- this is what's wrong with this debate.
I will say this.
...Excuse me...
We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if you've done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take more out of your taxes now and think they're gonna give it back to you later?
And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C.
That is what we need.
We need to resolve this issue.
Well, sure.
So I have nothing at all critical of him.
Let me just -- let me respond.
...John... John, I'd like to address this?
Well, I could take issue with  with all of those things, but we dont have time.
You know what?
So, look, Im going to love my daughters, Im going to love them no matter what they do.
When I talk about making America the number one manufacturer again in the world, its not just talk.
What they do is unbelievable, how bad.
I think it's a terrible.
And that's in my economic plans, how I would deal with the prescription drug companies, how I would deal with college, how I would deal with a full range of issues that I've been talking about throughout this campaign to go further.
And youre going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are.
How are these people gonna lead us?
That doesn't work so well.
Progressives don't believe that.
If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you.
What I believe and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone -- which of course would be in a coalition -- be put on the table is because I'm trying to figure out what leverage we have to get Russia to the table.
Can I make a response to that?
And we're gonna be there very soon.
You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist.
I want to tell you what Ive done.
How we tax, how we regulate.
They're saying, "Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough."
Hi, my name is Chris Christie, and I'd like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because I'd like to ask all of you, how many of you, raise your hand, believe that in today's Barak Obama America your children will have a better life than you've had?
Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work.
But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong.
Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.
You know who's not successful?
The best way to grow the middle class is to make it a good place to create a job.
And you know who else has?
You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal.
Nobody can do that like me.
At the end of my presidency I would like to believe that the world would be a safe place, and there wouldn't be the threats.
It cannot -- they require -- what they need, is they need an operating space.
I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
If we do that again, we will lose again, we will deserve to lose again.
That's how you go from secretary to CEO.
Let's sit down and talk about what we need to do."
Jeb, just...
You can interrupt everybody else on this stage, you're not going to interrupt me, OK?
Or that we're just going to be great?
And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn't sound right to me.
I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually, Secretary, would be a mistake.
I would hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies, not to talk them into this lousy deal with Iran, but to say to them, "what is it that you need to defeat ISIL?"
We need someone who can actually get the job done.
No, I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me.
It will be and can be done.
I think -- I think that there is profound frustration all over this country with establishment politics.
So let's solve this problem in an international way, and then we really will have a -- a way to address climate change.
So I will tell you I understand the game, I've been on the other side all of my life.
And we need to live in an America where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail, but ultimately small enough to succeed, where we send powers back to the states and back to the people.
Well, that's a real question.
Often we talk about whether we should be engaged in the world, or disengaged in the world, and I think this is an example of some who want to isolate us, actually, and not be engaged.
Listen, you know, I -- if I were sitting at home and watch thing back and forth, I would be inclined to turn it off.
Becky, can I comment on this question?
It will be about you.
And I think people across America want a leader whos actually going to listen to them.
And I think that's one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of, big government.
Well, the -- the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really want to address climate change?
We will be there soon.
But honestly, Mr. Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this.
But I know who the pessimist is.
You just want to... You're not interested in an answer.
I know personally how extraordinary and unique this nation is.
I will tell you one thing.
He has got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not... Everybody is really doing some bad fact...
And that's what this economy needs to -- that's what this debate needs to be about.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- but I guess I could.
And if that means making sure that folks like Donald and many of us on the stage don't get it, that's the right thing to do because here's what Hillary Clinton is going to want to do.
I'm going to tell you -- thank you.
We will make America great again.
Well, Megyn, my father was a mailman.
You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job.
It is going to be amazingly destructive.
A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way.
So, to the Chinese, when it comes to dealing with me, youve got a clenched fist and an open hand.
I think part of the problem is the () way Republicans think about climate change.
And I will go back to Washington with my plan.
I had to work my way through school.
And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream.
c (APPLAUSE)
And if you think -- if you think that we can simply go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing people together, you are sorely mistaken.
Here is what I'm skeptical of.
So we need to get on a different mindset.
But Jake, this -- this is -- this... Jake, yeah, absolutely, I'll take this on, because this is an issue that's important in this race.
And I would say this.
I cannot tell you how much our nation is threatened and how we need a commander in chief who understands the threats to this nation.
Well, thank you, Megyn.
You know, of the few questions I've got, the last one I need is to give him some more time.
Let me -- I'm proud to serve in the United States Senate.
They see the House and they see the Senate and they say why can't we pass this.
And that's what I hear from some people, "we'll do nothing and it will just be fixed."
I'm not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that.
Well, thank you.
If Im the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent.
I am passionate about what I believe.
You know, they want to be a little cool.
That's the way to solve this problem.
But it's in the following way, this is an important question.
How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen?
...I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what's going in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess.
Thank you for the opportunity to be with this great audience tonight.
And I think the country is, too.
But you know what?
A Christie presidency won't be about me.
No, I won't do that, because I've said nothing wrong.
Bernie, say my name so I can get into this.
You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills.
We need to stop surrendering and start standing... ...for our principles.
I'm going to look for ways to try to make sure it's solvent into the future.
Ive been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be, based on the way you have treated me.
Because somebody doesnt think the way I do, doesnt mean that I cant care about them or cant love them.
And I think that's what we have to start thinking about.
I'm proud of my family.
You know, we can do these things.
This is -- there's something bigger to this.
...You don't want me operating on you, I assure you.
And they need somebody like me to straighten out that mess.
I think she's got a beautiful face, and I think she's a beautiful woman.
If you want a skeptic -- if you want a skeptic, Jake, I will happily jump into that briar patch.
I don't see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly.
I'm a husband to my best friend, Heidi, who's here tonight.
I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make.
We want to win, and we will win.
How are you supposed to know, Megyn?
I can.
And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life.
I'd like to finish my question -- my answer.
We need the American people to know what's going on in Washington in a way that today they do not know.
Here's the thing.
And I'm glad that I have a chance to answer this question.
How do we decide on who gets to follow up?
But tonight, I want to talk not about my e-mails, but about what the American people want from the next president of the United States.
And, for those of us who are serious enough to run for president, think long and hard why we're here, and hopefully you'll know we're not here for ourselves.
I think he is right.
Just can't happen.
So I don't know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said "let up."
I will be the vessel through which they can fix this country, but it's not about me.
When someone points a gun at your head and loads it, by God, you ought to take them seriously, and we need to take that seriously.
Im not  Im not are  I dont think you heard me.
I believe in a society where all people do well.
So here is a solution to this.
Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.
You know, I am by my nature impatient.
Not the change we need at a time we need it.
I think I am a nice person.
Well, John, I don't really have any weaknesses that I can think of.
You're proud of your family, just as I am.
I'm the granddaughter of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful one-year-old child.
If I become president, we will do something really special.
I think he'd be a great spirit."
So what I say is very simple.
Thank you for having me here tonight.
I'm going to do the right thing.
And we need to make that very clear to everybody.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- well, I guess I could.
I -- I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement.
I don't think Senator Rubio is a skeptic of climate change.
Well, let's remember what was going on.
We can amplify those who live there.
I'm going to do what it takes to defend this nation.
This is beyond anybody's expectations.
I'll tell them that we're going to grow the economy so that we can give people better opportunities so they don't have to rely exclusively on benefit types of programs.
And so, everyone can talk us here about their credentials.
I think the American people are look for real leadership.
And Mr. Trump, we don't need an apprentice in the White House.
Is there going to be any change in the House with new leadership?
I will do so in a way that will bring people together.
Now, here's what is going to happen.
How are we going to do this?
How about a round of applause for Boulder, Colorado.
And we certainly shouldn't have a commander-in-chief who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far we're going to go, and how far we're willing to fight, so I'm not putting a troop number.
I want a government so small I can barely see it.
I know what it's like.
And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.
Well, look, Im an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage.
Let me tell you what is real:  The threat to our homeland.
But I know, if we don't come in with a very tough and comprehensive approach, like the plan I'm recommending, we're gonna be behind instead of ahead... ...on what the next crisis could be.
That's what you believe.
We need to live in an America where we have an economy, where everyone can live their piece of the American dream, no matter what that dream is.
But whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time --
And I know what it takes to get things done.
And for people who want to just tune him out, theyre making a mistake.
I kind of have to laugh when I think of, "Mmm, sounds like a non sequitur."
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much.
And thats what is happening whether you like it or not.
And that way, she could spend her own money with her face.
You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba (ph), and I'll tell you, I'd go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel.
And I don't think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is save capitalism from itself.
I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country.
But I think it would be really unfair not to look at the entire picture.
I would like to start with a basic.
I think it's important, because it's about judgment.
That's how easy it is to get across.
This is not theoretical to me.
My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what its like to lose it.
And we will be strong again.
I intend to make America strong again.
Well, I have to tell you, I hear phenomenal things.
If you think its bad now, you shouldve seen it when I got there.
And I want to make this our government.
So I'm... ...not taking a back seat to anybody on my values... ...my principles and the results that I get.
But let me just say...
But I'm telling you -- I will say it tonight.
I think one of the great problems, and what American people don't like about politics, is hypocrisy.
I want to -- before my time runs out I want to get back to this issue of ISIS versus Iran.
Let me be clear.
I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard.
And here's what's going to happen.
And, when I hear people talking about means testing, let's just remember what that means.
And a movement not to let anybody be behind.
The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose it, to get it done.
And so I just want to thank you very, very much for that support.
Well I want to comment on this.
That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.
We need -- we need somebody -- we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again.
I haven't gotten that much time, so I'm going to take just what little I can here.
How can you get people to vote for you?"
I don't believe that any...
You've got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not... ... he's really doing some bad...
And its time for us to move beyond that.
I don't need anybody's money.
Hugh, can I -- can I make a response to that?
Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for it.
I know how to lead.
So, so important.
Those are some of the principles that I believe in, and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people.
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith.
And he said, you know, if you give me a tithe, it doesnt matter how much you make.
Because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction.
We don't know who you are or where you're going.
Whether they can speak or not.
I look at Washington, and I hear the talk, and I see the promises and it seems nothing ever changes.
I think thats a mistake.
Well, I will tell you this.
But the boots on the ground need to be the people who live there.
Well, let's be clear when it comes to experience.
People that know me, like me.
I will not make the pledge at this time.
Let me go back to Washington.
Because you know what?
You don't want to hear the answer.
And, I will tell you, I love my life.
How the hell can you vote for this guy?
Well let me tell you what mine would be.
If you want someone who's not going to divide Washington, but gets things done, then you should make me your president.
Well, I want to know, did you win?
I think that's very important.
I don't think it's so much about when the government orders a corporation to do something.
I'd want to know the answer to that.
But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day.
That means education.
But here's where I do disagree.
Well, I just happen to believe that people are not stupid.
That's the best way to do this.
Well, I don't know.
Now, let me just be clear, John.
Let me just close it out this way.
Well, you know what I'm worried about?
You know, let me say something at the outset.
Heres what I believe.
Now I don't know whether he'll do it or not, but let's force him to do it.
No, I think Im trying to solve problems that somebody better solve.
Here's what I do believe.
Well, you know what?
That's why I've entered this race, and I think I have the experience to do it.
I want to win.
Im not going to tell you if you like your doctor, you can keep them; if you like your healthcare, you can keep it.
One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation.
But let me go back to something that's very important.
I think it's going to haunt him absolutely.
When politicians talk, we need to pay attention to what they do, not what they say.
Youre having a hard time tonight.
In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.
Because she knows she's wrong, and she cannot look in the mirror at herself, and she cannot tell the American people the truth.
I think what Senator Rubio said I agree with.
I think everybody should pay something.
I know this, I certainly am.
No interest," because I don't need anybody's money.
Well, this is going to be a show me, don't tell me election.
I very much hope I am the only person on this stage who can say this, but I know there are millions of Americans out there who will say the same thing.
And I believe that we need to restore America's presence and leadership in the world.
And let me make it clear -- let me make it clear... ... if we think -- if we think they're getting close to a -- to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.
And, if they can, you know, specify exactly how that's going to be done, and what the cost, and it sounds reasonable, then I think it's worth discussing... Not exactly what I said.
Real leadership is what I would hopefully bring to America.
So I want to tell you this story.
And I think the states ought to create these standards.
I'm going to go to the commanders and say give me a plan to win.
But we need, Jeb, to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action.
Give me the chance to be your president.
And I don't say that favorably, and I'm not sure if there's another system, but I say this.
Let me say -- let me say something that may not be great politics.
But you know what, we  we need strength, we need energy, we need quickness and we need brain in this country to turn it around.
Believe me.
But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.
I give to everybody.
So I have thought deeply and long about what we're gonna do to do exactly what I think both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk.
Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, I'm proud to stand for life.
I want to be the peacemaker.
Thats how were going to win.
We need to solve this in a global way.
I'll give you another example.
I'll tell you how optimistic I am about America.
If you give me the chance as your next president, I won't back down any day, anyway, anyhow.
I think the voters will make that determination.
I think we ought to get rid of all the taxes on people who produce.
You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy.
I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and Ive been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan.
If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy.
I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action.
That's absurd, and I think people who don't want to fix it, really, or unwilling to take the chance to say, "something has to change," are missing the boat here.
It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American.
Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and its great to be here tonight.
The simple fact is --
You need a conservative who can deliver, and thats what I bring to the table.
Im going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me.
You know, America doesn't owe me anything.
...Yeah, well... Well, let me just say this.
We don't need an apprentice in the White House.
So I would change how we -- our approach to the Middle East.
You don't hear it from anybody else.
And, this is what I am finding throughout America.
But it means a way of life.
But, what I added, which I think is the most important thing, so, I said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down, and talk about it.
I think it will haunt him.
But just being decent going forward and living my life in a way that would be a testimony to him and our faith.
I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination.
Well, in Wisconsin...WALKER You -- you -- let me finish...
Well, I think if we left it open, we could see how many people smoked pot in high school.
But we can give people better health care.
No Jeb, I don't remember -- well, let me tell you.
And I think you need to be pro-life for more than just the time in the womb.
Look, I think the government should work to change that.
They don't know how to bring it about.
I would talk to him.
I'd like to just mention something about my tax plan, and how it relates to the discussion... Alright.
But you don't hear that from anybody else.
People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C.
You can't grow your way out of demographics.
But I like to be unpredictable so that people don't know exactly... (LAUGHTER)
I don't think that's fair.
And, it's really time that the government get out of the way, and let the people be the ones who decide how they want to run their country.
Well, I -- I -- I'd like to respond.
I dont think they like me very much.
John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer?
And how?
I don't want to argue about how low things are going to be, I want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in America.
I think it's -- yeah, I think it's a one-two punch.
I think its time to do something even more bold.
Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know, who owns a landscaping business out there.
I don't know her, and this is a total mischaracterization... Good.
Gosh, I'd love for us to talk about something like that.
I would be so different from what you have right now.
So you know what?
That's how I feel.
Think of it.
Jake, can I say something about that?
I think thats the kind of leadership voters want in DC.
And it would be for the voters to decide whether Senator Sanders or anyone else should be president.
We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be -- and -- and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody.
No one is -- no -- let me -- let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us.
You'd better believe it.
So I just want to say.
Well, I'm trying to set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on.
So I don't -- I don't want to really get into describing who's a politician and who's not a politician, but I think the people have kind of made that decision for themselves already, and will continue to do so as time goes on.
I don't have to, believe it or not.
But I think they will see a very good option here.
But, let me tell you who not to blame.
I think we have to play a long game, and I think, ultimately -- you want to talk about blunders?
I think to go beyond that, as I understand what Governor O'Malley has recommended, so that they would get the same subsidies.
It is time to believe in America again.
I mean, people at home want to know across this country, they want to know what we're going to do to fix this place, how we'll balance a budget, how we're going to create more economic growth, how we'll pay down the debt.
And I will focus -- I will focus on helping those people who need it the most.
It will be a way of life.
how are you supposed to  no, Ill tell you how you, look
But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford."
I don't think it's gonna happen.
I am a conservative; I can win this job, I can do this job, I need your help, I need your support.
But my wife is down here in the front, and I'm sure, if you'd like to talk to her later, she can give you more than you'll ever be able to take care of.
Here's what we need to do, and I think this is where Donald is absolutely right.
I want to -- I want to -- I want to say something about what the senator just said.
But I would not be for shutting the government down... ...because I don't think it's going to work out.
How about this?
I will know...
How is she  how is she gonna lecture me  how is she gonna lecture me about student loans?
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do.
I think -- and I think you're going to have -- I think you're going to see a big impact on autism.
So... ...no, that's not what... ...that -- I think Dodd-Frank was a very... ...good start, and I think that we have to implement it.
And I just want to be -- make it clear that I'm grateful to be here with all of you again, and welcome the addition of Carly Fiorina, as well.
I don't think I am pandering.
One thing I want to be clear about tonight.
How are we gonna -- how are we gonna go back and make it great again?
How will that happen?
She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here... And why don't you apologize to her right now.
This is something that goes way beyond politics.
But I think she will come in a narrow way.
So I dont think we need to worry too much.
I hope I can get that kind of time here.
I would like -- and I think it's very important.
So there must be something inherently fair about that.
I want to be in -- I want America to be the best... ...in the world for people...
And every day, I think about what we need to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her, but for all of our children.
I would certainly love to get in on this, because I think the single...
...I'm going to go to Washington to stop it...
I know how to find common ground and I know how to stand my ground.
But in terms of education, this is what I think.
But I would say just... Well, I think it was.
Well, thank you, Megyn, I wasnt sure I was going to get to talk again.
You know, I believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about, like how are we going to make college affordable?
Now, I know that it may be buzzing out there, but I think it's important we get to the issues, because that's what people want, and they don't want all this fighting.
If you think about it...
I frankly don't think there will be much change because I think what's going to happen is you're going to get more of the same.
I think so, right.
I don't think we need to be rash, I don't think we need to be reckless, and I think need to leave lines of communication open.
I don't think so.
I'm happy to answer the question... Let me tell you how that question... Let me tell you how that question... ... so you don't actually want to hear the answer, John?
And I think that ought to be worth something.
And those who stay will have to learn our language to stay, because I dont speak it well, but look how far  how, at the end of the day, folks, I am trying to solve the problem and win an election.
So here's what I think will make America better.