Well, thank you.
And I'm delighted to be here in New Hampshire for this debate.
You know, the American president has to both keep our families safe and make the economy grow in a way that helps everyone, not just those at the top.
That's the job.
I have a strategy to combat and defeat ISIS without getting us involved in another ground war, and I have plans to raise incomes and deal with a lot of the problems that keep families up at night.
I'm very clear that we have a distinct difference between those of us on this stage tonight and all of our Republican counterparts.
From my perspective, we have to prevent the Republicans from rolling back the progress that we've made.
So we have a lot of work to do in this campaign to make it clear where we stand in the Democratic Party, what we will do for our country, and I look forward to this evening's discussion of real issues that face the American people.
Thank you.
Martha, thank you.
Tonight we have a different debate than the debates that we have been allowed to have so far, because tonight is different because of this reason, that in the course of this presidential campaign America has again been attacked by jihadi terrorists, American lives taken from us.
So, yes, we must talk about our ideas to move our economy forward, but the first job of the president of the United States is to protect the people of the United States.
I visited with a number of our neighbors in Northern Virginia at a mosque last Friday.
And as I looked out there at the eyes of our neighbors, I also looked in the eyes of veterans.
I looked into the eyes of Boy Scouts.
I looked into the eyes of moms and dads who would do anything in their power to protect our country's values and our freedoms.
What our nation needs right now is to realize that, while we face a terrible danger, we also face a different sort of political danger.
And that is the danger that democracies find themselves susceptible to when unscrupulous leaders try to turn us upon each other.
What our country needs right now is new leadership that will bring us together around the values that unite us and the freedoms that we share as Americans.
We will rise to challenge of ISIL and we will rise together to the challenges that we face in our economy.
But we will only do so if we hold true to the values and the freedoms that unite us, which means we must never surrender them to terrorists, must never surrender our Americans values to racist, must never surrender to the fascist pleas of billionaires with big mouths.
We are a better country than this.
Our enduring symbol is not the barbed wire fence, it is the Statue of Liberty.
And America's best days are in front of us if we move forward together.
Good evening.
I am running for president of the United States because it is too late for establishment politics and establishment economics.
I'm running for president because our economy is rigged because working people are working longer hours for lower wages and almost all of new wealth and income being created is going to the top one percent.
I'm running for president because I'm going to create an economy that works for working families not just billionaires.
I'm running for president because we have a campaign finance system which is corrupt, where billionaires are spending hundreds of millionaires of dollars to buy candidates who will represent their interests rather than the middle class and working families.
I'm running because we need to address the planetary crisis of climate change and take on the fossil fuel industry and transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
I'm running for president because I want a new foreign policy; one that takes on Isis, one that destroys ISIS, but one that does not get us involved in perpetual warfare in the quagmire of the Middle East but rather works around a major coalition of wealthy and powerful nations supporting Muslim troops on the ground.
That's the kind of coalition we need and that's the kind of coalition I will put together.
David, let me give you a little bit of background here.
The DNC has hired vendors.
On two occasions, there were breeches in information two months ago.
Our staff found information on our computers from the Clinton campaign.
And when our staffers said, "whoa, what's going here?"
They went to the DNC quietly.
They went to the vendor and said, "hey, something is wrong," and that was quietly dealt with.
None of that information was looked at.
Our staffer at that point did exactly the right thing.
A few days ago a similar incident happened.
Thirdly, what I have a really problem, and as you mentioned - this is a problem, I recognize it as a problem.
But what the DNC did arbitrarily without discussing it with us is shut off our access to our information crippling our campaign.
That is an egregious act.
I'm glad that late last night, that was resolved.
Don't know that.
But we need an independent investigation, and I hope Secretary Clinton will agree with me for the need of that.
Last point.
When we saw the breach two months, we didn't go running to the media and make a big deal about it.
And it bothers me very much that, rather than working on this issue to resolve it, it has become many press releases from the Clinton campaign later.
Absolutely.
Yes, I apologize.
Not only -- not only do I apologize to Secretary Clinton -- and I hope we can work together on an independent investigation from day one -- I want to apologize to my supporters.
This is not the type of campaign that we run.
And if I find anybody else involved in this, they will also be fired.
I very much appreciate that comment, Bernie.
It really is important that we go forward on this.
I know that you now have your data back, and that there has been an agreement for an independent inquiry into what did happen.
Obviously, we were distressed when we learned of it, because we have worked very hard -- I said in the beginning of this campaign, we want to reach as many voters as possible, and we have tens of thousands of volunteers doing that, and entering data all the time to keep up with what people are telling us.
And so, now that, I think, you know, we have resolved your data, we have agreed on an independent inquiry, we should move on.
Because I don't think the American people are all that interested in this.
I think they're more interested in what we have to say about all the big issues facing us.
Yeah, David, look, for crying out loud, our country has been attacked, we have pressing issues involving how we're going to adapt to this changing era of warfare.
Our economy -- people are working harder and being left behind.
You want to know why things don't get done in Washington?
Because for the last 24 hours, with those issues being so urgent to people as they tune in tonight, wondering how they're even be able to buy presents for their kids.
Instead, we're listening to the bickering back and forth.
Maybe that is normal politics in Washington, but that is not the politics of higher purpose that people expect from our party.
We need to address our security issues, we need to address the economic issues around the kitchen table.
And if people want a more high-minded politics and want to move our country forward, go on to martinomalley.com and help my campaign move our country forward.
Let me agree with Governor O'Malley and let me agree with Secretary Clinton.
You know, we had this incident before, Secretary, with your famous e-mails.
Right?
And what I said and I think what Governor O'Malley is saying, and I hope you say, is when the middle class of this country is disappearing, when we have massive income and wealth inequality, when we're the only major country on earth not guaranteeing health care to all people, all the issues that the governor talked about, the secretary talked about, those are the issues.
Media notwithstanding.
Those are the issues that the American people want discussed.
I hope those are the issues we'll discuss.
Well, first, the most important job of being president is obviously to keep our country safe and to keep the families of America safe.
I have a plan that I've put forward to go after ISIS.
Not to contain them, but to defeat them.
And it has three parts.
First, to go after them and deprive them of the territory they occupy now in both Syria and Iraq.
Secondly, to go after and dismantle their global network of terrorism.
And thirdly, to do more to keep us safe.
Under each of those three parts of my plan, I have very specific recommendations about what to do.
Obviously, in the first, we do have to have a -- an American-led air campaign, we have to have Arab and Kurdish troops on the ground.
Secondly, we've got to go after everything from North Africa to South Asia and beyond.
And then, most importantly, here at home, I think there are three things that we have to get right.
We have to do the best possible job of sharing intelligence and information.
That now includes the internet, because we have seen that ISIS is a very effective recruiter, propagandist and inciter and celebrator of violence.
That means we have to work more closely with our great tech companies.
They can't see the government as an adversary, we can't see them as obstructionists.
We've got to figure out how we can do more to understand who is saying what and what they're planning.
And we must work more closely with Muslim-American communities.
Just like Martin, I met with a group of Muslim-Americans this past week to hear from them about what they're doing to try to stop radicalization.
They will be our early warning signal.
That's why we need to work with them, not demonize them, as the Republicans have been doing.
David, I am the very first...
I'm one of the 77 percent.
I think this is a very difficult issue.
Let me agree with much of what the secretary and the governor have said.
Let me tell you what I think we have got to do.
I think it's a two-pronged issue.
Number one, our goal is to crush and destroy ISIS.
What is the best way to do it?
Well, I think there are some differences of opinion here, perhaps between the secretary and myself.
I voted against the war in Iraq because I thought unilateral military action would not produce the results that were necessary and would lead to the kind of unraveling and instability that we saw in the Middle East.
I do not believe in unilateral American action.
I believe in action in which we put together a strong coalition of forces, major powers and the Muslim nations.
I think one of the heroes in a real quagmire out there, in a dangerous and difficult world, one of the heroes who we should recognize in the Middle East is King Abdullah II of Jordan.
And Abdullah said something recently, very important.
He said, "Yes, international terrorism is by definition an international issue, but it is primarily an issue of the Muslim nations who are fighting for the soul of Islam.
We the Muslims should lead the effort on the ground."
And I believe he is absolutely right.
Well, I think you have to look at both the terrorism challenge that we face abroad and certainly at home and the role that guns play in delivering the violence that stalks us.
Clearly, we have to have a very specific set of actions to take.
You know, when Senator Sanders talks about a coalition, I agree with him about that.
We've got to build a coalition abroad.
We also have to build a coalition at home.
Abroad, we need a coalition that is going to take on ISIS.
I know how hard that is.
I know it isn't something you just hope people will do and I've worked on that...
Yes, I'm getting...
...
I'm getting to that.
Because I think if you only think about the coalition abroad you're missing the main point, which is we need a coalition here at home.
Guns, in and of themselves, in my opinion, will not make Americans safer.
I think what is...
Is creating much deeper, closer relations and, yes, coalitions within our own country.
The first line of defense against radicalization is in Muslim-American community.
People who we should be welcoming and working with.
I worry greatly that the rhetoric coming from the Republicans, particularly Donald Trump, is sending a message to Muslims here in the United States and literally around the world that there is a "clash of civilizations," that there is some kind of Western plot or even "war against Islam," which then I believe fans the flames of radicalization.
So guns have to be looked at as its own problem, but we also have to figure out how we're going to deal with the radicalization here in the United States.
It's a country in which people choose to buy guns.
I think half of the -- more than half of the people in my own state of Vermont, my guess here in New Hampshire, are gun owners.
That's the right of people.
But this is what I do believe.
I believe that when we have some 300 million guns in this country, I believe that when we have seen these horrific mass killings, not only in San Bernardino, but in Colorado and movie theaters in Colorado, I think we have got to bring together the vast majority of the people who do in fact believe in sensible gun safety regulations.
For example, talking about polls, a poll recently came out, overwhelming majority of the American people say we should strengthen the instant background check.
Who denies that it is crazy...
Who denies that it is crazy to allow people to own guns who are criminals or are mentally unstable?
We've got to eliminate the gun show loophole.
In my view, we have got to see that weapons designed by the military to kill people are not in the hands of civilians.
I think there is a consensus.
I think -- I'm not going to say that everybody is in agreement.
It's a divided country on guns.
But there is a broad consensus on sensible gun safety regulations that I, coming from a state that has virtually no gun control, will do my best to bring together.
Martha, if I may...
Excuse me, no.
I am the only person on this stage who has actually...
... passed comprehensive gun safety legislation with a ban on combat assault weapons, David.
And, look, there are profound differences...
Look, what we need on this issue is not more polls.
We need more principle.
When ISIL does training videos that say the easiest way to get a combat assault weapon in the United States of America is at a gun show, then we should all be waking up.
We need comprehensive gun safety legislation and a ban on assault weapons.
Because, Martha, it would prevent people like the guy that just got charged yesterday perhaps from being able to buy combat assault weapons.
You know, we are the only nation, only developed nation on the planet...
No, Martha, I would not.
And that's not what we did in Maryland.
But you know what we did in Maryland?
We overcame the NRA's objections.
We overcame all of the crowds that were coming down there.
We did our own rallies.
And at least if we enact these laws in a prospective way, we can address a major vulnerability in our country.
And it's because of the flip-flopping, political approach of Washington that both of my two colleagues on this stage have represented there for the last forty years.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Let's calm down a little bit, Martin.
Yes, let's tell the truth, Martin.
I am telling the truth.
First of all, let's have some rules here, commentators.
All right.
He sure did.
He invoked mine as well.
Sure did.
All right.
First off, we can do all the great speeches we want but you're not going to succeed unless there is a consensus.
We have one House member from Vermont, three candidates in the race.
Quite likely, for that reason.
So please, do not explain to me, coming from a state where democratic governors and republican governors have supported virtually no gun control.
Excuse me.
Do not tell me that I have not shown courage in standing up to the gun people, in voting to ban assault weapons, voting for instant background checks, voting to end the gun show loop hole and now we're in a position to create a consensus in America on gun safety.
I do and this is an important issue and I know we'll get to a lot of other critical ones as well.
I actually agree with Governor O'Malley about the need for common sense gun safety measures.
And I applaud his record in Maryland.
I just wish he wouldn't misrepresent mine.
I have been for the Brady bill, I have been against assault weapons.
I have voted not to give gun makers and sellers immunity.
And I also know that -- and I'm glad to see this -- Senator Sanders has really moved in face of the facts about what we're confronting in our country.
I know that he has said in the two previous that he wants to take on this immunity issue because we need to send a strong message to the gun manufacturers, to the sellers, to the gun lobby.
And I would hope, Senator Sanders, that you would join the Democrats who are trying to close the Charleston loophole, that you would sponsor or co-sponsor legislation to remove the absolute immunity.
We need to move on this consensus that exists in the country.
It's no longer enough just to say the vast majority of Americans want common sense gun safety measures including gun owners.
We need, and only the three of us will do this, nobody on the Republican side will even admit there's a problem.
And in whatever way the three of us can we need to move this agenda forward and begin to deal with the gun lobby and the intimidation that they present.
Well I think a lot of people are understandably reacting out of fear and anxiety about what they're seeing.
First what they saw in Paris, now what they have seen in San Bernardino.
And Mr. Trump has a great capacity to use bluster and bigotry to inflame people and to make think there are easy answers to very complex questions.
So what I would say is, number one, we need to be united against the threats that we face.
We need to have everybody in our country focused on watching what happens and reporting it if it's suspicious, reporting what you hear.
Making sure that Muslim Americans don't feel left out or marginalized at the very moment when we need their help.
You know, I was a senator from New York after 9/11, and we spent countless hours trying to figure out how to protect the city and the state from perhaps additional attacks.
One of the best things that was done, and George W. Bush did this and I give him credit, was to reach out to Muslim Americans and say, we're in this together.
You are not our adversary, you are our partner.
And we also need to make sure that the really discriminatory messages that Trump is sending around the world don't fall on receptive ears.
He is becoming ISIS's best recruiter.
So I want to explain why this is not in America's interest to react with this kind of fear and respond to this sort of bigotry.
Well, the answer is, obviously, if you see suspicious activity, you report it.
That's kind of a no-brainer.
You know, somebody is loading guns and ammunition into a house, I think it's a good idea to call 911.
Do it.
But I want to talk -- I want to talk about something else, because Secretary Clinton I think made some interesting and good points.
What you have now is a very dangerous moment in American history.
The secretary is right: Our people are fearful.
They are anxious on a number of levels.
They are anxious about international terrorism and the possibility of another attack on America.
We all understand that.
But you know what else they're anxious about?
They're anxious about the fact that they are working incredibly long hours, they're worried about their kids, and they're seeing all the new income and wealth -- virtually all of it -- going to the top 1 percent.
And they're looking around them, and they're looking at Washington, and they're saying the rich are getting much richer, I'm getting poorer, what are you going to do about it?
What are you going to do for my kids?
And somebody like a Trump comes along and says, "I know the answers.
The answer is that all of the Mexicans, they're criminals and rapists, we've got to hate the Mexicans.
Those are your enemies.
We hate all the Muslims, because all of the Muslims are terrorists.
We've got to hate the Muslims."
Meanwhile, the rich get richer.
So what I say to those people who go to Donald Trump's rallies, understand: He thinks a low minimum wage in America is a good idea.
He thinks low wages are a good idea.
I believe we stand together to address the real issues facing this country, not allow them to divide us by race or where we come from.
Let's create an America that works for all of us, not the handful on top.
Martha, may I -- Martha, may I...
Can I share this quick story?
Oh.
All right.
When you come back to me, I'll share that story.
I would not want to go to that point.
I would hope that, given the extraordinary capacities that the tech community has and the legitimate needs and questions from law enforcement, that there could be a Manhattan-like project, something that would bring the government and the tech communities together to see they're not adversaries, they've got to be partners.
It doesn't do anybody any good if terrorists can move toward encrypted communication that no law enforcement agency can break into before or after.
There must be some way.
I don't know enough about the technology, Martha, to be able to say what it is, but I have a lot of confidence in our tech experts.
And maybe the back door is the wrong door, and I understand what Apple and others are saying about that.
But I also understand, when a law enforcement official charged with the responsibility of preventing attacks -- to go back to our early questions, how do we prevent attacks -- well, if we can't know what someone is planning, we are going to have to rely on the neighbor or, you know, the member of the mosque or the teacher, somebody to see something.
I just think there's got to be a way, and I would hope that our tech companies would work with government to figure that out.
Otherwise, law enforcement is blind -- blind before, blind during, and, unfortunately, in many instances, blind after.
So we always have to balance liberty and security, privacy and safety, but I know that law enforcement needs the tools to keep us safe.
And that's what i hope, there can be some understanding and cooperation to achieve.
I believe that we should never give up our privacy; never should give up our freedoms in exchange for a promise of security.
We need to figure this out together.
We need a collaborative approach.
We need new leadership.
The way that things work in the modern era is actually to gather people around the table and figure these things out.
The federal government should have to get warrants.
That's not some sort of passe you know, antique sort of principle that safeguards our freedoms.
But at the same time with new technologies I believe that the people creating these projects -- I mean these products also have an obligation to come together with law enforcement to figure these things out; true to our American principles and values.
My friend Kashif, who is a doctor in Maryland; back to this issue of our danger as a democracy of turning against ourselves.
He was putting his 10 and 12-year-old boys to bed the other night.
And he is a proud American Muslim.
And one of his little boys said to him, "Dad, what happens if Donald Trump wins and we have to move out of our homes?"
These are very, very real issues.
this is a clear and present danger in our politics within.
We need to speak to what unites us as a people; freedom of worship, freedom of religion, freedom of expression.
And we should never be convinced to give up those freedoms in exchange for a promise of greater security; especially from someone as untried and as incompetent as Donald Trump.
Well, I agree that we have to have the toughest screening and vetting...
I don't think a halt is necessary.
What we have to do is put all of our resources through the Department of Homeland Security, through the State Department, through our intelligence agencies, and we have to have an increased vetting and screening.
Now, this takes, David, 18 months to 24 months, two years.
So I know it's not going to happen overnight and everything that can be done should be done.
But the process should move forward while we are also taking on ISIS, putting together the kind of strategy that I've advocated for, and making sure that the vetting and the screening is as tough as possible.
Because I do believe that we have a history and a tradition, that is part of our values system and we don't want to sacrifice our values.
We don't want to make it seem as though we are turning into a nation of fear instead of a nation of resolve.
So I want us to have a very tough screening process but I want that process to go forward.
And if at the end of 18 months, 24 months there are people who have been cleared, and I would prioritize widows, and orphans, and the elderly, people who may have relatives, families, or have nowhere else to go.
I would prioritize them.
And that would I think give the American public a bit more of a sense of security about who is being processed and who might end up coming as refugees.
No, what I would say is this is look, I was the first of the three of us to call for America to accept the 65,000 refugees we were asked to accept.
And if this humanitarian crisis increases, we should accept more.
David, there are wider vulnerabilities than when it comes to refugees.
I met recently with some members of the Chaldean Christian communities and the wait times are a year, 18 months, 24 months.
There is a pretty excruciating process that refugees go through.
We need to invest more in terms of the other sort of visas and the other sort of waivers.
What these Chaldean families told me was that their families in Syria, when ISIS moves into their town, they actually paint a red cross across the door and mark their homes for demolition, and that tells the family you'd better get out now.
The sort of genocide and brutality that the victims are suffering, these are not the perpetrators.
We need to be the nation whose enduring symbol is the Statue of Liberty, and we need to act like the great country we are, according to our values.
Excuse me.
May I have a chance to respond to this issue?
Yeah, but the rule includes equal -- got it.
All right.
All right.
Let's keep going.
OK.
Yeah.
And I also voted and helped lead the effort against the war in Iraq, which will go down in history as one of the worst foreign blunders -- foreign policy blunders in the history of our country.
I voted against the first Gulf War, which set the stage, I believe, for the second Iraq war.
And what I believe right now, and I believe this is terribly important, is the United States of America cannot succeed, or be thought of as the policeman of the world, that when there's an international crisis all over the world, in France and in the U.K. Or -- hey, just call up the American military and the American taxpayers, they're going to send the troops.
And if they have to be in the Middle East for 20 or 30 years no problem.
I have a problem with that, Martha.
What I believe has got to happen is there must be an international coalition, including Russia, a well-coordinated effort.
But I agree, as I mentioned a moment ago, with King Abdullah.
This is a war for the soul of Islam.
The troops on the ground should not be American troops.
They should be Muslim troops.
I believe that countries like Saudi Arabia and Qatar have got to step up to the plate, have got to contribute the money that we need, and the troops that we need, to destroy ISIS with American support.
My plan is to make it work, to tell Saudi Arabia that instead of going to war in Yemen, they, one of the wealthiest countries on Earth, are going to have to go to war against ISIS.
To tell Qatar, that instead of spending $200 billion on the World Cup, maybe they should pay attention to ISIS, which is at their doorstep.
No.
Not at all.
I think that what we're facing with ISIS is especially complicated.
It was a different situation in Afghanistan.
We were attacked from Afghanistan.
Al Qaida was based in Afghanistan.
We went after those who had attacked us.
What's happening in Syria and Iraq is that, because of the failures in the region, including the failure of the prior government in Baghdad, led by Maliki, there has been a resurgence of Sunni activities, as exemplified by ISIS.
And we have to support Sunni-Arab and Kurdish forces against ISIS, because I believe it would be not only a strategic mistake for the United States to put ground combat troops in, as opposed to special operators, as opposed to trainers, because that is exactly what ISIS wants.
They've advertised that.
They want American troops back in the Middle East.
They want American soldiers on the ground fighting them, giving them many more targets, and giving them a great recruiting opportunity.
So, I think it's absolutely wrong policy for us to be even imagining we're going end up putting tens of thousands of American troops into Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS.
And we do have to form a coalition.
I know how hard that is.
I have formed them.
I put together a coalition, including Arabs, with respect to Libya and a coalition to put sanctions onto Iran.
And you have to really work hard at it.
And the final thing I would say, bringing Donald Trump back into it, if you're going to put together a coalition in the region to take on the threat of ISIS you don't want to alienate the very countries and people you need to be part of the coalition.
And so that is part of the reason why this is so difficult.
Well, I just think you're asking a question with a false choice.
I believe if we lead an air coalition, which we are now in the position of doing and intensify it, if we continue to build back up the Iraqi army, which has had some recent success in Ramadi, as you know, if we get back talking to the tribal sheiks in Anbar to try to rebuild those relationships, which were very successful, in going after Al Qaida in Iraq, if we get the Turks to pay more attention to ISIS than they're paying to the Kurds, if we do put together the kind of coalition with the specific tasks that I am outlining, I think we can be successful in destroying ISIS.
So that's what I'm focused on, that's what I've outlined and that's what I would do as president.
Well, we have invested nowhere near what we should be investing in human intelligence on the ground.
And what I'm talking about is not only the covert CIA intelligence, I'm also talking about diplomatic intelligence.
I mean, we've seen time and time again, especially in this very troubled region of nation-state failures, and then we have no idea who the next generation of leaders are that are coming forward.
So what I would say is not only do we need to be thinking in military terms, but we do our military a disservice when we don't greatly dial up the investment that we are making in diplomacy and human intelligence and when we fail to dial up properly, the role of sustainable development in all of this.
As president, I would make the administrator of USAID an actual cabinet member.
We have to act in a much more whole of government approach, as General Dempsey said.
And I do believe, and I would disagree somewhat with one of my colleagues, this is a genocidal threat.
They have now created a safe haven in the vacuum that we allowed to be partly and because of our blunders, to be created to be created in the areas of Syria and Iraq.
We cannot allow safe havens, and as a leader of moral nations around this Earth, we need to come up with new alliances and new ways to prepare for these new sorts of threats, because Martha, this will not be the last region where nation-states fail.
And you've seen a little bit of this emerging in the -- in the African Union and the things that they have done to better stabilize Somalia.
We need to pay attention here in Central America as well.
So this is the new type of threats that we're facing and we need to lead as a nation in confronting it and putting together new alliances and new coalitions.
Well, I just want to quickly add...
Martha, that -- you know, one of the reasons why I have advocated for a no-fly zone is in order to create those safe refuges within Syria, to try to protect people on the ground both from Assad's forces, who are continuing to drop barrel bombs, and from ISIS.
And of course, it has to be de-conflicted with the Russians, who are also flying in that space.
I'm hoping that because of the very recent announcement of the agreement at the Security Council, which embodies actually an agreement that I negotiated back in Geneva in June of 2012, we're going to get a diplomatic effort in Syria to begin to try to make a transition.
A no-fly zone would prevent the outflow of refugees and give us a chance to have some safe spaces.
I do not think it would come to that.
We are already de-conflicting air space.
We know...
No, I don't think so.
I am advocating...
I am advocating the no-fly zone both because I think it would help us on the ground to protect Syrians; I'm also advocating it because I think it gives us some leverage in our conversations with Russia.
Now that Russia has joined us in the Security Council, has adopted an agreement that we hashed out a long day in Geneva three years ago, now I think we can have those conversations.
The no-fly zone, I would hope, would be also shared by Russia.
If they will begin to turn their military attention away from going after the adversaries of Assad toward ISIS and put the Assad future on the political and diplomatic track, where it belongs.
I have a difference of opinion with Secretary Clinton on this.
Our differences are fairly deep on this issue.
We disagreed on the war in Iraq.
We both listened to the information from Bush and Cheney.
I voted against the war.
But I think -- and I say this with due respect -- that I worry too much that Secretary Clinton is too much into regime change and a little bit too aggressive without knowing what the unintended consequences might be.
Yes, we could get rid of Saddam Hussein, but that destabilized the entire region.
Yes, we could get rid of Gadhafi, a terrible dictator, but that created a vacuum for ISIS.
Yes, we could get rid of Assad tomorrow, but that would create another political vacuum that would benefit ISIS.
So I think, yeah, regime change is easy, getting rid of dictators is easy.
But before you do that, you've got to think about what happens the day after.
And in my view, what we need to do is put together broad coalitions to understand that we're not going to have a political vacuum filled by terrorists, that, in fact, we are going to move steadily -- and maybe slowly -- toward democratic societies, in terms of Assad, a terrible dictator.
But I think in Syria the primary focus now must be on destroying ISIS and working over the years to get rid of Assad.
That's the secondary issue.
That is exactly...
That is exactly what I just said and what I just described.
And that is important, because now we have a U.N. Security Council that will enable us to do that.
And, you know, with all due respect, Senator, you voted for regime change with respect to Libya.
You joined the Senate in voting to get rid of Gadhafi, and you asked that there be a Security Council validation of that with a resolution.
All of these are very difficult issues.
I know that; I've been dealing with them for a long time.
And, of course, we have to continue to do what is necessary when someone like Gadhafi, a despot with American blood on his hands, is overturned.
But I'll tell you what would have happened, if we had not joined with our European partners and our Arab partners to assist the people in Libya, you would be looking at Syria.
Now the Libyans are turning their attention to try to dislodge ISIS from its foothold and begin to try to move together to have a unified nation.
I was not the secretary of state...
I think we're missing the point here.
We are doing both at the same time.
Well, I don't agree with that, because we will not get the support on the ground in Syria to dislodge ISIS if the fighters there who are not associated with ISIS, but whose principal goal is getting rid of Assad, don't believe there is a political, diplomatic channel that is ongoing.
We now have that.
We have the U.N. Security Council adopting a resolution that lays out a transition path.
It's very important we operate on both at the same time.
And let me just say a word about coalition-building, because I've heard Senator Sanders say this.
I know how hard it is to build coalitions.
I think it would be a grave mistake to ask for any more Iranian troops inside Syria.
That is like asking the arsonist to come and pour more gas on the fire.
The Iranians getting more of a presence in Syria, linking with Hezbollah, their proxy in Lebanon, would threaten Israel and would make it more difficult for us to move on a path to have a transition that at some point would deal with Assad's future.
I happen to think...
I'd like to offer a...
Secretary Clinton is right.
This is a complicated issue.
I don't think anyone has a magical solution.
But this is what I do believe.
Yes, of course Assad is a terrible dictator.
But I think we have got to get our foreign policies and priorities right.
The immediate -- it is not Assad who is attacking the United States.
It is ISIS.
And ISIS is attacking France and attacking Russian airliners.
The major priority, right now, in terms of our foreign and military policy should be the destruction of ISIS.
And I think -- and I think we bring together that broad coalition, including Russia, to help us destroy ISIS.
And work on a timetable to get rid of Assad, hopefully through Democratic elections.
First priority, destroy ISIS.
May I offer a different generation's perspective on this?
During the Cold War -- during the Cold War, we got into a bad habit of always looking to see who was wearing the jersey of the communists, and who was wearing the U.S. jersey.
We got into a bad habit of creating big bureaucracies, old methodologies, to undermine regimes that were not friendly to the United States.
Look what we did in Iran with Mosaddegh.
And look at the results that we're still dealing with because of that.
I would suggest to you that we need to leave the Cold War behind us, and we need to put together new alliances and new approaches to dealing with this, and we need to restrain ourselves.
I mean, I know Secretary Clinton was gleeful when Gadhafi was torn apart.
And the world, no doubt is a better place without him.
But look, we didn't know what was happening next.
And we fell into the same trap with Assad, saying -- as if it's our job to say, Assad must go.
We have a role to play in this world.
But we need to leave the Cold War and that sort of antiquated thinking behind.
I believe that we need to focus on destroying ISIL.
That is the clear and present danger.
And I believe that we can springboard off of this new U.N. resolution, and we should create, as Secretary Clinton indicated, and I agree with that, that there should be a political process.
But we shouldn't be the ones declaring that Assad must go.
Where did it ever say in the Constitution, where is it written that it's the job of the United States of America or its secretary of State to determine when dictators have to go?
We have a role to play in this world.
But it is not the world -- the role of traveling the world looking for new monsters to destroy.
David...
Since he has been making all kinds of comments.
I advocated arming the moderate opposition back in the day when I was still secretary of State, because I worried we would end up exactly where we are now.
And so, when we look at these complex problems, I wish it could be either/or.
I wish we could say yes, let's go destroy ISIS and let's let Assad continue to destroy Syria, which creates more terrorists, more extremists by the minute.
No.
We now finally are where we need to be.
We have a strategy and a commitment to go after ISIS, which is a danger to us as well as the region... SANDERS (?
): Secretary...
And we finally have a U.N. Security Council Resolution bringing the world together to go after a political transition in Syria.
Could I just say -- just say this...
If the United States does not lead, there is not another leader.
There is a vacuum.
Can I just say this...
And we have to lead, if we're going to be successful.
Of course the United States must lead.
But the United States is not the policeman of the world.
The United States must not be involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East.
The United States, at the same time, cannot successfully fight Assad and ISIS.
ISIS, now, is the major priority.
Let's get rid of Assad later.
Let's have a Democratic Syria.
But the first task is to bring countries together to destroy ISIS.
Sorry.
First of all, we recognize that we have a rigged economy, as you've indicated.
Absolutely.
So what do we do?
First statement is, we tell the billionaire class, "they cannot have it all."
For a start, they're going to start to pay their fair share of taxes.
Second of all what we do, is you raise the minimum wage to living wage, 15 bucks an hour over the next several years.
Next thing we do, pay equity for women workers.
Next thing that we do, real unemployment -- official unemployment, 5 percent, real employment 10 percent, youth unemployment, off the charts.
We rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, our roads our bridges, our rail systems, we create 13 million jobs with a trillion-dollar investment.
Furthermore, in a competitive global economy, it is imperative that we have the best educated workforce in the world.
That is why I'm going to have a tax on Wall Street speculation to make certain that public colleges and universities in America are tuition free.
Look these are the things that we did in own state through the recession.
We actually passed a living wage.
We raised the minimum wage.
We actually raised it to the highest goals of any state in the nation also in minority and women participant goals because we understood that the way you reinvigorate and make fair market American capitalism work, is to make the choices and the investments that include more people more full in the economic success of your state.
All through the recession, we defended the highest median income in America and the second highest median income for African American families.
How?
By actually doing more for education.
We increased education funding by 37 percent.
We were the only state in American that went four years in a row without a penny increase in college tuition.
We invested more in our infrastructure and we squared our shoulders to the great business opportunity of this era and that is moving our economy to a 100 percent clean electric energy future.
We created 2,000 new jobs in the solar industry and we fought every single day to adopt more inclusive economic practices.
So David, the conclusion of all of those things is this; they weren't hopes, they weren't dreams, they weren't amorphous goals out there.
We actually took action to do these things and as president, I have put forward 15 strategic goals that will make wages go up again for all American families.
Universal national service is an option for every kid in America to cut youth employment.
And I'm the only candidate on this stage to put forward a new agenda for America's cities so we can employ more people in the heart of great American cities and get them back to work.
Well, I've been talking to a lot of these families, and this is such an outrage, both because it's bad for our economy, we're a 70 percent consumption economy, people need to feel optimistic and confident, they need to believe their hard work is going to be rewarded, and it's bad for our democracy.
It's absolutely the case that if people feel that the game is rigged, that has consequences.
They don't want to raise the minimum wage, they don't want to do anything to increase incomes.
At the center of my economic policy is raising incomes, because people haven't been able to get ahead, and the cost of everything, from college tuition to prescription drugs, has gone up.
Of course we have to raise the minimum wage.
Of course we have to do more to incentivize profit sharing, like we see with Market Basket right here in New Hampshire and New England, where all of the employees get a chance to share in the profits.
And we've got to do more on equal pay for equal work.
That means pass the Paycheck Fairness Act so we have transparency about how much people are making.
That's the way to get women's wages up, and that's good for them and good for their families and good for our communities.
And there is a lot we can do in college affordability.
I have debt-free tuition plans, free community college plans, getting student debt down.
I also am very committed to getting the price of drugs down.
And there's a lot.
You can go to my website...
... hillaryclinton.com, and read about it.
But I guess the final thing that -- that I would say is this is the kind of debate we need to take to the Republicans in the fall.
This is the election...
... issues they have to respond to.
Everybody should.
Look, I have said I want to be the president for the struggling, the striving and the successful.
I want to make sure the wealthy pay their fair share, which they have not been doing.
I want the Buffett Rule to be in effect, where millionaires have to pay 30 percent tax rates instead of 10 percent to nothing in some cases.
I want to make sure we rein in the excessive use of political power to feather the nest and support the super wealthy.
But I also want to create jobs and I want to be a partner with the private sector.
I'm particularly keen on creating jobs in small business.
My dad was a small businessman, a really small business.
I want to do more to help incentivize and create more small businesses.
So if -- if people who are in the private sector know what I stand for, it's what I fought for as a senator, it's what I will do as president, and they want to be part of once again building our economy so it works for everybody, more power to them, because they are the kind of business leaders who understand that if we don't get the American economy moving and growing, we're not going to recognize our country and we're not going to give our kids the same opportunities that we had.
No, I think they won't.
So Hillary and I have a difference.
The CEOs of large multinationals may like Hillary.
They ain't going to like me and Wall Street is going to like me even less.
And the reason for that is we've got to deal with the elephant in the room, which is the greed, recklessness and illegal behavior on Wall Street.
When you have six financial institutions in this country that issue two-thirds of the credit cards and one-third of the mortgages, when three out of four of them are larger today than when we bailed them out because they are too big to fail, we've got to re- establish Glass-Steagall, we have got to break the large financial institutions up.
So I don't think...
... having said that, I don't think I'm going to get a whole lot of campaign contributions from Wall Street.
I don't have a super PAC.
I don't want campaign contributions from corporate America.
And let me be clear: While there are some great corporations creating jobs and trying to do the right thing, in my view -- and I say this very seriously -- the greed of the billionaire class, the greed of Wall Street is destroying this economy and is destroying the lives of millions of Americans.
We need an economy that works for the middle class, not just a handful of billionaires, and I will fight and lead to make that happen.
Look, I look at our economy as an ecosystem.
And the fact of the matter is that the more fully people participate, the more our workers earn, the more they will spend, the more our economy will grow.
And most heads of businesses -- large, medium and small -- understand that.
But there is a better way forward than either of those offered by my two opponents here on this stage.
We're not going to fix what ails our economy, we're not going to make wages go up for everyone by either trying to replace American capitalism with socialism -- which, by the way, the rest of the world is moving away from -- nor will we fix it by submitting to sort of Wall Street-directed crony capitalism.
And for my part, I have demonstrated the ability to have the backbone to take on Wall Street in ways that Secretary Clinton never, ever has.
In fact, in the last debate, very shamefully, she tried to hide her cozy relationship with Wall Street big banks by invoking the attacks of 9/11.
I believe that the way forward for our country is to actually reinvigorate our antitrust department with the directive to promote fair competition.
There's mergers that are happening in every aspect of our country that is bad for competition and it's bad for -- for upward mobility of wages.
And that's why today you still cannot support, as I do, breaking up the big banks and making sure that we pass a modern-day Glass- Steagall, like we had in late 1999, before it was repealed and led to the crash, where so many millions of families lost their jobs and their homes.
And I was on the front lines of that, looking into the eyes of my neighbors...
OK...
Let me respond...
Under the rules, I have been -- I have been invoked, David, so let me respond very quickly.
Number one...
Number one, there are currently two hedge fund billionaires running ads against me here in New Hampshire.
They started in Iowa.
Now, you'd have to ask yourself, why are they running ads against me?
And the answer is: Because they know I will go right after them, that I will not let their agenda be America's agenda.
You can go to opensecrets.org and check that.
Now, number three -- and let me say this -- when Governor O'Malley was heading the Democratic Governors Association, he had no trouble at all going to Wall Street to raise money to run campaigns for Democratic governors.
And he also had no trouble appointing an investment banker to be in charge of his consumer protection bureau when he was governor.
So, you know, again, the difference between us and the Republicans is night and day.
And there is only one person on this stage who voted to take away authority from the SEC and the Commodities Future Trading Commission that they could no longer regulate what are called swaps and derivatives, which actually contributed to the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and that was Senator Sanders.
So if we're going to be talking like this, we can -- and maybe we can score some political points -- but the fact is: Every one of us stands for the kind of economy that will work better for every American.
And if that means taking on Wall Street, I have a plan that is tough and comprehensive and praised by a lot of folks who say it goes further than what both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley are proposing.
Let me just -- let me just...
Let me just jump in.
My name was invoked.
So with that invocation, let me say a few words.
Secretary Clinton, I don't have a super PAC.
I don't get any money from Wall Street.
You have gotten a whole lot of money over the years from Wall Street.
But most importantly, when you look at what happened in the 1990s, go to berniesanders.com.
I'll advertise my Web site as well.
And what you'll find is that I led -- helped lead the effort as a member of the House financial committee against Alan Greenspan, against a guy named Bill Clinton, maybe you know him, maybe you don't.
Against the Republican leadership, who all thought it would be a great idea to merge investor banks and commercial banks and large insurance companies.
What a brilliant idea that would be.
Go to YouTube.
Find out what I said to Greenspan.
At the end of the day, if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, and the governor makes a good point about trade, anti-trade, anti-monopoly activities.
Wall Street today has too much political power.
It has too much economic power.
To get deregulated -- listen to this, they spent $5 billion in lobbying and campaign contributions over a 10-year period.
Wall Street is a threat to the economy.
They've got to be broken up.
Number one, we do have more people who have access to health care.
We have ended the terrible situation that people with pre- existing conditions were faced with where they couldn't find at any affordable price health care.
Women are not charged more than men any longer for our health insurance.
And we keep young people on our policies until they turn 26.
Those are all really positive developments.
But out-of-pocket costs have gone up too much and prescription drug costs have gone through the roof.
And so what I have proposed, number one, is a $5,000 tax credit to help people who have very large out-of-pocket costs be able to afford those.
Number two, I want Medicare to be able to negotiate for lower drug prices just like they negotiate with other countries' health systems.
We end up paying the highest prices in the world.
And I want us to be absolutely clear about making sure the insurance companies in the private employer policy arena as well as in the Affordable Care exchanges are properly regulated so that we are not being gamed.
And I think that's an important point to make because I'm going through and analyzing the points you were making, Martha.
We don't have enough competition and we don't have enough oversight of what the insurance companies are charging everybody right now.
Yes.
Well, they're glitches because...
It is.
Because part of this is the startup challenges that this system is facing.
We have fought, as Democrats, for decades to get a health care plan.
I know.
I've got the scars to show from the effort back in the early '90s.
We want to build on it and fix it.
And I'm confident we can do that.
And it will have effects in the private market.
And one of the reasons in some states why the percentage cost has gone up so much is because governors there would not extend Medicaid.
And so people are still going to get health care, thankfully, in emergency rooms, in hospitals.
Those costs are then added to the overall cost, which does increase the insurance premiums for people in the private system.
Yes, exactly, exactly.
Yes, well, roughly.
Let me say this.
As a member of the Health Education Committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act, much of what Secretary Clinton said about what we have done, among other things, ending the obscenity of this pre-existing situation is a step forward.
Seventeen more million more people have health care.
It is a step forward.
A step forward.
But this is what we also have to say.
Not only are deductibles rising, 29 million Americans still have no health insurance and millions of people can't afford to go to the doctor.
Major crisis and primary health care.
Here is the bottom line.
Why is it that the United States of America today is the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right?
Why is it...
Why is it that we are -- why is it that we spend almost three times per capita as to what they spend in the U.K., 50 percent more than what they pay in France, countries that guarantee health care to all of their people and in many cases, have better health care outcomes.
Bottom line.
This ties into campaign finance reform.
The insurance companies, the drug companies are bribing the United States Congress.
We need to pass a Medicare for all single payer system.
It will lower the cost of health care for a middle-class family by thousands of dollars a year.
But they will not be paying, Martha, any private insurance.
So it's unfair to say in total...
RADDATZ: OK. Let's go to talk about the high cost of college education and for that we turn to the executive director of the New Hampshire Institute of Politics, right here at Saint Anselm college, Neil Levesque.
Neil?
And universities.
Well, Neil, I think we've got to work on a two-pronged approach.
And your point is absolutely well taken.
There are a lot of factors involved in that.
And that is that we have some colleges and universities that are spending a huge amount of money on fancy dormitories and on giant football stadiums.
Maybe we should focus on quality education with well-paid faculty members.
But...
And I understand in many universities a heck of a lot of vice presidents who earn a big salary.
But, bottom line is this is the year 2015.
If we are going to be competitive in the global economy we need the best educated workforce.
It is insane to my mind, hundreds of thousands of young people today, bright qualified people, cannot go to college because they cannot afford -- their families cannot afford to send them.
Millions coming out of school as you indicated, deeply in debt.
What do we do?
My proposal is to put a speculation tax on wall street, raise very substantial sums of money, not only make public colleges and universities tuition-free, but also substantially lower interest rates on student debt.
You have families out there paying 6 percent, 8 percent, 10 percent on student debt, refinance their homes at 3 percent.
What sense is that?
So I think we need radical changes in the funding of higher education.
We should look at college today the way high school was looked at 60 years ago.
All young people who have the ability should be able to get a college education.
(APPLAUSE)
Yes, this one falls under the category of, I have actually done this.
As a governor we actually made the greater investments so that we could go four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.
My plan actually goes further than Senator Sanders because a big chunk of the cost is actually room and board and books and fees.
So as a nation we need to increase what we invest in Pell grants.
Yes, we need to make it easier for parents to refinance.
But states need to do more as well.
And I propose a block grant program that will keep the states in the game as well.
I believe that all of our kids should go into an income-based repayment plan.
I'm joined tonight by two daughters, Tara and Grace.
My oldest daughter's a teacher.
Man (ph), their mother's here as well.
We were proud of them on graduation day, weren't we, Katie?
And we're going to be proud every month for the rest of our lives.
I mean, we had to borrow so much money to send them to college and were not the only ones.
There're families all across America who aren't able to contribute to our economy because of this crushing student loan.
I also propose that we can pay for this with a tax on high volume trades and we need to because my dad came to college after World War II on a G.I.
Bill.
But today, we're the only nation on the planet that's saddling our kids with a lifetime of bills.
That's a drag on the economy.
It's one of the key investments we need to make.
I was flattered that Secretary Clinton two months later borrowed so many of my proposals to incorporate into hers.
And in our party, unlike the Republican party, we actually believe that the more our people learn, the more they will earn and higher education should be a right for every kid.
Right.
Well, I have what I call the new college compact.
Because I think everybody has to have some skin in this game, you know.
So under my compact, the federal government will match money that the states begin to put back in to the higher education system.
Secondly, I don't believe in free tuition for everybody.
I believe we should focus on middle-class families, working families, and poor kids who have the ambition and the talent to go to college and get ahead.
So I have proposed debt free tuition, which I think is affordable and I would move a lot of the Pell Grant and other aid into the arena where it could be used for living expense.
So I put all of this together, again, on my website and I've gotten such a good response.
But I want to quickly say, one of the areas that Senator Sanders touched on in talking about education and certainly talking about health care is his commitment to really changing the systems.
Free college, a single payer system for health, and it's been estimated were looking at 18 to $20 trillion, about a 40 percent in the federal budget.
And I have looked at his proposed plans for health care for example, and it really does transfer every bit of our health care system including private health care, to the states to have the states run.
And I think we've got to be really thoughtful about how we're going to afford what we proposed, which is why everything that I have proposed I will tell you exactly how I'm going to pay for it; including college.
May I respond to the critique on the ...
I would just...
But Secretary Clinton is wrong.
As you know, because I know you know a lot about health care.
You know that the United States per capita pays far and away more than other country.
And it is unfair simply to say how much more the program will cost without making sure that people know that, we are doing away with cost of private insurance and that the middle class will be paying substantially less for health care on the single payer than on the Secretary's Clinton proposal.
Well, the only thing - the only thing I can go on Senator Sanders...
Your proposal is to go and send the health care system to the state.
And my analysis is, that you are going to get more taxes out of middle class families.
I'm the only person...
... saying, no middle class tax raises.
That's off the table...
Now, this is getting to be fun.
That is a pledge that I'm making.
I made it when I ran in 2008.
Yes, and it was the same one that President Obama made.
Because I don't think we should be imposing new big programs that are going to raise middle class families' taxes.
We just heard that most families haven't had a wage increase since 2001.
Since, you know, the end of the last Clinton administration when incomes did go up for everybody.
And we've got to get back to where people can save money again, where they can invest in their families, and I don't think a middle-class tax should be part of anybody's plan right now.
Let me respond to...
Let me respond to...
Number one, most important economic reality of today is that over the last 30 years, there has been a transfer of trillions of dollars from the middle class to the top one-tenth of one percent who are seeing a doubling of the percentage of wealth that they own.
Now, when Secretary Clinton says, "I'm not going raise taxes on the middle class," let me tell you what she is saying.
She is disagreeing with FDR on Social Security, LBJ on Medicare and with the vast majority of progressive Democrats in the House and the Senate, who today are fighting to end the disgrace of the United States being the only major country on Earth that doesn't provide paid family and medical leave.
What the legislation is is $1.61 a week.
Now, you can say that's a tax on the middle class.
It will provide three months paid family and medical leave for the working families of this country.
I think, Secretary Clinton, $1.61 a week is a pretty good invest.
Senator, I have been -- I have been fighting for paid...
... family leave for a very long time...
David, thank you.
I have a way to pay for it that actually makes the wealthiest pay for it...
Then (inaudible)...
... not everybody else.
Every (inaudible) Democrat and senator in support of this proposal introduced by your good friend and my good friend, Kirsten Gillibrand, Rosa DeLauro, got ears (ph) to legislation out there that will finally provide family and medical leave.
No, I've never made a promise like that.
But unlike either of these two fine people, I've actually balanced a budget every single year.
I was one -- I was the only -- one of only seven states that had a AAA bond rating.
By the time I left, the average tax burden on Maryland families was the same as when I started.
But I did pass a more progressive income tax and asked the highest-earning people to pay another 14 percent.
David, look, this is the big -- I agree, by the way, that we should have paid family leave.
And I agree with Senator Sanders on that.
And just like Social Security and unlike the Republicans, I think we should actually expand Social Security and increase average monthly benefits.
But look, there's one big entitlement we can no longer afford as a country, and that is the entitlement that the super wealthy among us, those earning more than a million dollars, feel that they're entitled to pay lower income tax rates and a far lower preferred income tax rate when it comes to capital gains.
If we were to raise the marginal rate to 45 percent for people earning more than a million dollars and if we tax capital gains essentially the same we do earnings from hard work and sweat and toil, you could generate $800 billion over the next ten years and that would do so much good for affordable college, debt-free college, cutting youth unemployment in half, investing in our cities again.
So the things I have done in office are the things that actually invest in growing our economy and making wages go up.
That's the issue that we need to tackle as Americans, and we can do it and we know how.
Well, David, I think this is one of the most important challenges facing not just our next president but our country.
We have systemic racism and injustice and inequities in our country and in particular, in our justice system that must be addressed and must be ended.
I feel very strongly that we have to reform our criminal justice system and we have to find ways to try to bring law enforcement together again with the communities that they are sworn to protect.
Trust has been totally lost in a lot of places.
At the same time, we know that in many parts of our country police officers are bridging those divides and they're acting heroically.
The young officer who was killed responding to the Planned Parenthood murders.
The officer who told the victims of the San Bernardino killings that he would take a bullet before them.
So I think that we need to build on the work of the policing commissioner that President Obama impaneled.
We need to get a bipartisan commitment to work together on this.
And we need to hear the voices of those men and women and boys and girls who feel like strangers in their own country and do whatever is necessary to not only deal with the immediate problems within the criminal justice system, but more opportunities, more jobs, better education so that we can begin to rebuild that very valuable asset known as trust.
There is no issue in American public policy that I have worked on more day in and day out than this painful issue of policing, of law enforcement, criminal justice and race in America.
But we came together.
I brought people together over some very deep racial divides.
As governor, we continued to work together.
We reduced violent crime to 30-year lows.
But get this.
We also reduced incarceration rates to 20-year lows.
So it is possible actually, to find the things that actually work, that we did, increasing drug treatment, using big data to better protect the lives of young people, cut juvenile crime in half, and it's also possible to improve how we police our police.
But there wasn't a single day as mayor of Baltimore that I wasn't asked whether I was delivering on the promise I made to police the police.
We reported excessive force, discourtesy, use of lethal force.
In fact, drove down to three of the four lowest years on record police use of lethal force.
As a nation, we have to embrace this moment and make our departments more open, more transparent, and more accountable.
Just as we require every major department, every county to report its major crimes, we should require police departments to report their discourtesy, brutality, excessive force.
There's so much work that can be done, so much we've learned to do better.
We need to do it now as a nation.
This is our time and our opportunity to do that.
Well, this whole issue concerns me.
And I agree with much of what the secretary and the governor have said.
But let's be clear.
Today in America we have more people in jail than any other country on earth, 2.2 million people.
Predominantly African-American and Hispanic.
We are spending $80 billion a year locking up our fellow Americans.
I think, and this is not easy, but I think we need to make wage a major effort, to come together as a country and end institutional racism.
We need major, major reforms of a very broken criminal justice system.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, for a start it means that police officers should not be shooting unarmed people, predominantly African-Americans.
It means that we have to rethink the so-called war on drugs which has destroyed the lives of millions of people, which is why I have taken marijuana out of the Controlled Substance Act.
So that it will not be a federal crime.
That is why we need to make...
That is why we need to make police -- and I speak as a former mayor.
I was a mayor for eight years, worked very closely with a great police department.
And what we did is try to move that department toward community policing, so that the police officers become part of the community and not, as we see, in some cities an oppressive force.
We need to make police departments look like the communities they serve in terms of diversity.
We need to end minimal sentencing.
We need, basically, to pledge that we're going to invest in this country, in jobs and education, not more jails and incarceration.
Yes.
Look, this is a tragedy for New Hampshire.
It is a tragedy for my state of Vermont.
It is a tragedy all over this country.
The number of heroin deaths are growing very, very significantly.
What do we do?
Well, for a start, this may seem like a radical idea, but I think we have got to tell the medical profession and doctors who are prescribing opiates and the pharmaceutical industry that they have got to start getting their act together, we cannot have this huge number of opiates out there throughout this country, where young people are taking them, getting hooked, and then going to heroin.
Second of all, and the reason I believe in a health care for all program, we need to understand that addiction is a disease, not a criminal activity.
And that means -- and that means radically changing the way we deal with mental health and addiction issues.
When somebody is addicted and seeking help, they should not have to wait three, four months in order to get that help.
They should be able to walk in the door tomorrow and get a variety of treatments that work for them.
So those are some of the areas that I think we've got to move on.
You know, on my very first visit to New Hampshire in this campaign, I was in Keene, and I was asked what are you going to do about the heroin epidemic?
And all over New Hampshire, I met grandmothers who are raising children because they lost the father or the mother to an overdose.
I met young people who are desperately trying to get clean and have nowhere to go, because there are not enough facilities.
So this is a major epidemic, and it has hit New Hampshire and Vermont particularly hard.
I've had had two town halls, one in Keene, one in Laconia, dedicated exclusively to talking about what we can do.
And I've heard some great ideas about how law enforcement is changing its behavior, how the recovery community is reaching out.
And I was proud to get the endorsement of Mayor Walsh of Boston, who has made his struggle with alcoholism a real clarion call for action in this arena.
So, I've laid out a five-point plan about what we can do together.
I would like the federal government to offer $10 billion over ten years to work with states, and I really applaud Governor Hassan for taking up this challenge and working with the legislature here to come up with a plan.
We need to do more on the prescribing end of it.
There are too many opioids being prescribed, and that leads directly now to heroin addiction.
And we need to change the way we do law enforcement, and of course, we need more programs and facilities, so when somebody is ready to get help, there's a place for them to go.
And every law enforcement should carry the antidote to overdose, Naloxone, so that they can save lives that are on the brink of expiring.
Drugs have taken far too many of our citizens.
It's a huge public health challenge.
In our own city, I mentioned before, we had become the most addicted city in America.
But together, every single year, I expanded drug treatment funding within our city and then I expanded it in our state, and we were saving lives every single year doing the things that work, intervening earlier, understanding the continuum of care that's required until we got hit like every other state in the state -- in the United States, especially in New Hampshire and in the northeast with this opioid addiction, the over-prescribing.
I agree, we need better -- we need to rein in the over- prescribing, but I have put forward on my -- in my plan a $12 billion federal investment.
We have to invest in the local partnerships, and the best place to intervene, the best indicator of when a person is actually on the verge of killing themselves because of an addiction, is at the hospital.
That very first time they show up with a near miss, we should be intervening there.
That's what I said to my own public health people.
What would we do if this were ebola?
How would we act?
So many more Americans have been killed by the combination of heroin and these highly addictive pain pills, and yet, we refuse to act.
There are thing that can be done.
Go on to my website.
My plan is there.
It's one of 15 strategic goals I've set out to make our country a better place by cutting these sort of deaths in half in the next five years.
Well, first, let's remember why we became part of a coalition to stop Gadhafi from committing massacres against his people.
The United States was asked to support the Europeans and the Arab partners that we had and we did a lot of due diligence about whether we should or not, and eventually, yes, I recommended and the president decided that we would support the action to protect civilians on the ground and that led to the overthrow of Gadhafi.
I think that what Libya then did by having a full free election, which elected moderates, was an indication of their crying need and desire to get on the right path.
Now, the whole region has been rendered unstable, in part because of the aftermath of the Arab Spring, in part because of the very effective outreach and propagandizing that ISIS and other terrorist groups do.
But what we're seeing happening in Libya right now is that there has been a fragile agreement to put aside the differences that exist among Libyans themselves to try to dislodge ISIS from Sirte, the home town of Gadhafi, and to begin to try to create a national government.
You know, this is not easy work.
We did a lot to help.
We did as much as we could because the Libyans themselves had very strong feelings about what they wished to accept.
But we're always looking for ways about what more we can do to try to give people a chance to be successful.
Martha, we offered a lot more than they were willing to take.
We offered a lot more.
We also got rid of their chemical weapons, which was a big help, and we also went after a lot of the shoulder-fired missiles to round them up.
You know, we can't -- if we're not going to send American troops, which there was never any idea of doing that, then to try to send trainers, to try to send experts, is something we offered, Europeans offered, the U.N. offered, and there wasn't a lot of responsiveness at first.
I think a lot of the Libyans who had been forced out of their country by Gadhafi who came back to try to be part of a new government, believed they knew what to do and it turned out that they were no match for some of the militaristic forces inside that country.
But I'm not giving up on Libya and I don't think anybody should.
We've been at this a couple of years.
Well, there's always a retrospective to say what mistakes were made.
But I know that we offered a lot of help and I know it was difficult for the Libyans to accept help.
What we could have done if they had said yes would have been a lot more than what we were able to have done.
But what...
Look, the secretary is right.
This is a terribly complicated issue.
There are no simple solutions.
But where we have a disagreement is that I think if you look at the history of regime changes, you go back to Mossaddegh (ph) in Iran, you go back to Salvador Allende who we overthrew in Chile, you go back to overthrowing Saddam Hussein in Iraq, you go back to where we are today in Syria with a dictator named Assad.
The truth is it is relatively easy for a powerful nation like America to overthrow a dictator but it is very hard to predict the unintended consequences and the turmoil and the instability that follows after you overthrow that dictator.
So I think secretary Clinton and I have a fundamental disagreement.
I'm not quite the fan of regime change that I believe she is.
Martha -- I would just repeat that --
Well, I would just repeat that.
Wait a minute.
I think it's only fair to put on the record, Senator Sanders voted in the Senate for a resolution calling for ending the Gadhafi regime and asking that the U.N. be brought in, either a congressional vote or a U.N. Security Council vote.
We got a U.N. Security council vote.
Now, I understand that this is very difficult.
And I'm not standing here today and saying that Libya is as far along as Tunisia.
We saw what happened in Egypt.
I cautioned about a quick overthrow of Mubarak, and we now are back with basically an army dictatorship.
This is a part of the world where the United States has tried to play two different approaches.
One, work with the tough men, the dictators, for our own benefit and promote democracy.
That's a hard road to walk.
But I think it's the right road for us to try to travel.
And Martha...
... and in this case, we probably let our lust for regime toppling get ahead of the practical considerations for stability in that region.
And I believe that one of the big failings in that region is a lack of human intelligence.
We have not made the investments that we need to make to understand and to have relationships with future leaders that are coming up.
That's what Chris Stevens was trying to do.
But without the tools, without the support that was needed to that.
And now what we have is a whole stretch now, of the coast of Libya, 100 miles, 150 miles, that has now become potentially the next safe haven for ISIL.
They go back and forth between Syria and this region.
We have to stop contributing to the creation of vacuums that allow safe havens to develop.
Well, the role has been defined by each person who's held it.
And I am very grateful for all my predecessors and my successors because each of them not only did what she could to support her husband and our country but often chose to work on important issues that were of particular concern.
Obviously, Mrs. Obama has been a terrific leader when it comes to young people's health, particularly nutrition and exercise.
And I think has had a big impact.
So whoever is part of the family of a president has an extraordinary privilege of not only having a front row seat on history but making her or maybe his contribution.
And with respect to my own husband, I am probably still going to pick the flowers and the china for state dinners and stuff like that.
But I will certainly turn to him as prior presidents have for special missions, for advice, and in particular, how we're going to get the economy working again for everybody, which he knows a little bit about.
Given the fact that she's a lot smarter than me, yes, she would.
And let me, by the way, take this moment to congratulate Hillary Clinton, who I thought not only did an outstanding job as our first lady, but redefined what that role could be.
So, I thank you very much for that.
My wife, Jane, has been -- way back when before I knew her, a foster parent.
Many, many kids came into her home and received the kind of love that they desperately needed.
And she turned around many lives.
She is the best parent and grandmother that I know.
She has devoted her life, when I was mayor of the city of Burlington, actually when I first met her, we started a youth office, which started a after-school programs for kids, started a child care center, started a youth newspaper.
We got the kids involved in a whole lot of issues.
She led that effort.
So I think, at a time when so many of our kids are desperately looking for constructive activity, where too many of our kids are hanging around on street corners, potentially getting into trouble, I think we need a forceful advocate for the children, for teenagers, for the little children, to deal with the dysfunctional child care system, and I think my wife would do a great job in helping me accomplish those goals.
Thank you.
Well, thank you very much for hosting this debate, and let me applaud my colleagues up here.
Because I think frankly, maybe I'm wrong, but on our worst day, I think we have a lot more to offer the American people than the right wing's extremists.
My father came to this country from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket, which sparked my interest in the need for immigration reform because I know what it's like to be the son of an immigrant.
We grew up in a three-and-a-half-room, rent controlled apartment in Brooklyn, New York.
My mother's dream -- and she died very young, but my mother's dream for her whole life was to be able to get out of that rent-controlled apartment and own a home of her own.
She never lived to see that.
But what my parents did accomplish is they were able to send both of their sons to college.
We were the first in the family.
So I know something about economic anxiety and living in a family does not have sufficient income.
And that is why I am pledged, if elected president of the United States, to bring about a political revolution where millions of people begin to stand up and finally say enough is enough, this great country and our government belong to all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.
Thank you very much.
On January 20th, 2017, the next president of the United States will walk into the White House.
If, heaven forbid, that next president is a Republican, I think it's pretty clear we know what will happen.
A lot of the rights that have been won over years, from women's rights to voter rights to gay rights to worker rights, will be at risk.
Social Security, which Republicans call a Ponzi scheme, may face privatization.
Our vets may see the V.A.
hospital that needs to be improved and made better for them turned over to privatization.
Planned Parenthood will be defunded.
The list goes on because the differences are so stark.
You know, everybody says every election's important, and there's truth to that.
This is a watershed election.
I know how important it is that we have a Democrat succeed President Obama in the White House.
And I will do all that I can in this campaign to reach out and explain what I stand for and what I will do as president.
You know, I became a grandmother 15 months ago, and so I spent a lot of time thinking about my granddaughter's future.
But as president, I will spend even more time thinking about the futures of all the kids and the grandchildren in this country because I want to make sure every single child has a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.
If you will join me in this campaign, we will make that a mission.
Thank you, good night and may the force be with you.
The question is, how do we keep America safe from terrorism?
Trump says we ought to close that Internet thing.
The question really is, what does he mean by that?
Like they do in North Korea?
Like they do in China?
Rubio says we should collect all Americans' records all of the time.
The Constitution says otherwise.
I think they're both wrong.
I think we defeat terrorism by showing them that we do not fear them.
I think if we ban certain religions, if we censor the Internet, I think that at that point the terrorists will have won.
Regime change hasn't won.
Toppling secular dictators in the Middle East has only led to chaos and the rise of radical Islam.
I think if we want to defeat terrorism, I think if we truly are sincere about defeating terrorism, we need to quit arming the allies of ISIS.
If we want to defeat terrorism, the boots on the ground -- the boots on the ground need to be Arab boots on the ground.
As commander-in-chief, I will do whatever it takes to defend America.
But in defending America, we cannot lose what America stands for.
Today is the Bill of Rights' anniversary.
I hope we will remember that and cherish that in the fight on terrorism.
Thank you, Wolf.
Just last weekend, just last week, a friend asked one of my daughters, "Do you like politics?"
And my daughter said, "No, I don't.
And the reason I don't like it is because there's too much fighting, too much yelling.
It's so loud, I don't like it."
You know, I turned to my friend and I said, "You know, she's really on to something."
And when we think about our country and the big issues that we face in this country; creating jobs, making sure people can keep their jobs, the need for rising wages, whether our children when they graduate from college can find a job, protecting the homeland, destroying ISIS, rebuilding defense.
These are all the things that we need to focus on but we'll never get there if we're divided.
We'll never get there if republicans and democrats just fight with one another.
Frankly, we are republicans and they're democrats but before all of that, we're Americans.
And I believe we need to unify in so many ways to rebuild our country, to strengthen our country, to rebuild our defense, and for America to secure it's place it world; for us, for our children, and for the next generation.
Thank you.
Thank you Wolf.
America has been betrayed.
We've been betrayed by the leadership that Barack Obama and Hilary Clinton have provided to this country over the last number of years.
Think about just what's happened today.
The second largest school district in America in Los Angeles closed based on a threat.
Think about the effect that, that's going to have on those children when they go back to school tomorrow wondering filled with anxiety to whether they're really going to be safe.
Think about the mothers who will take those children tomorrow morning to the bus stop wondering whether their children will arrive back on that bus safe and sound.
Think about the fathers of Los Angeles, who tomorrow will head off to work and wonder about the safety of their wives and their children.
What is Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton done to this country?
That the most basic responsibility of an administration is to protect the safety and security of the American people.
I will tell you this, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I've fought terrorists and won and when we get back in the White House we will fight terrorists and win again and America will be safe.
Like all of you I'm angry.
I'm angry at what's happening to our nation.
Citizens, it's time to take our country back.
Bombastic insults wont take it back.
Political rhetoric that promises a lot and delivers little, won't take it back.
All of our problems can be solved.
All of our wounds can be healed by a tested leader who is willing to fight for the character of our nation.
I have been tested.
I have beaten breast cancer.
I have buried a child.
I started as a secretary.
I fought my way to the top of corporate America while being called every B word in the book.
I fought my way into this election and on to this debate stage while all the political insiders and the pundits told, "it couldn't be done."
I've been told, "no,: all my life.
And all my life, I've refused to accept no as an answer.
Citizens, it is time to take our country back from the political class, from the media, from the liberal elite.
It can be done, it must be done, join me and we will get it done.
Our freedom is under attack.
Our economy is under water.
The leading democrat is under investigation.
And America is under the gun to lead the free world to protect our civilized way of life.
Serious times require strong leadership, that's what at stake right now.
Regarding national security, we need to restore the defense cuts of Barack Obama to rebuild our military, to destroy ISIS before it destroys us.
Regarding economic security, we need to take power and money away from Washington D.C. and empower American families so that they can rise up again.
Look, America still is an exceptional country.
We love to lead and we love to win.
And we do it, when we take on any challenge and when we take - we support our friends.
As president, I will keep you and our country safe, secure, and free.
Thank you.
Thank you Wolf.
It's really amazing to be back in Las Vegas.
I spent six years as a child growing not far from where we stand tonight.
I use to sit on the porch of our home and listen to my grandfather tell stories as he smoked one of three daily cigars.
One of the things my grandfather instilled in me, was that I was really blessed because I was a citizen of the greatest country in the history of our mankind.
But there have always been people in American politics that wanted America to be more like the rest of the world.
And In 2008, one of them was elected president of this country and the result has been a disaster.
Today you have millions of Americans that feel left out and out of place in their own country, struggling to live paycheck to paycheck, called bigots because they hold on to traditional values.
And around the world, America's influence has declined while this president has destroyed our military, our allies no longer trust us, and our adversaries no longer respect us.
And that is why this election is so important.
That is why I'm running for president.
And that's why I'm going to ask you for your vote tonight.
If you elect me president, we will have a president that believes America is the greatest country in the world and we will have a president that acts like it.
Thank you, Wolf.
America is at war.
Our enemy is not violent extremism.
It is not some unnamed malevolent force.
It is radical Islamic terrorist.
We have a president who is unwilling to utter its name.
The men and women on this stage, every one of us, is better prepared to keep this nation safe than is Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton.
We need a president who understands the first obligation of the commander-in-chief is to keep America safe.
If I am elected president, we will hunt down and kill the terrorists.
We will utterly destroy ISIS.
We will stop the terrorist attacks before they occur because we will not be prisoners to political correctness.
Rather, we will speak the truth.
Border security is national security and we will not be admitting jihadists as refugees.
We will keep America safe.
Thank you, Wolf.
Please join me for a moment of silence and remembrance of the San Bernardino victims.
Thank you.
You know, our country since its inception has been at war, every 15 or 20 years.
But the war that we are fighting now against radical Islamist jihadists is one that we must win.
Our very existence is dependent upon that.
You know, as a pediatric neurosurgeon, I frequently faced life and death situations, and had to come up with the right diagnosis, the right plan, and execute that plan frequently with other colleagues.
Right now, the United States of America is the patient.
And the patient is in critical condition and will not be cured by political correctness and will not be cured by timidity.
And I am asking the Congress, which represents the people, to declare a war on ISIS so that we can begin the process of excising that cancer and begin the healing process, and bring peace, prosperity, and safety back to America.
Thank you.
I began this journey six months ago.
My total focus was on building up our military, building up our strength, building up our borders, making sure that China, Japan, Mexico, both at the border and in trade, no longer takes advantage of our country.
Certainly would never have made that horrible, disgusting, absolutely incompetent deal with Iran where they get $150 billion.
They're a terrorist nation.
But I began it talking about other things.
And those things are things that I'm very good at and maybe that's why I'm center stage.
People saw it.
People liked it.
People respected it.
A month ago things changed.
Radical Islamic terrorism came into effect even more so than it has been in the past.
People like what I say.
People respect what I say.
And we've opened up a very big discussion that needed to be opened up.
Thank you very much.
We are not talking about isolation.
We're talking about security.
We're not talking about religion.
We're talking about security.
Our country is out of control.
I will build a wall.
It will be a great wall.
People will not come in unless they come in legally.
As far as other people like in the migration, where they're going, tens of thousands of people having cell phones with ISIS flags on them?
I don't think so, Wolf.
They're not coming to this country.
And if I'm president and if Obama has brought some to this country, they are leaving.
They're going.
They're gone.
Well, first of all, we need to destroy ISIS in the caliphate.
That's -- that should be our objective.
The refugee issue will be solved if we destroy ISIS there, which means we need to have a no-fly zone, safe zones there for refugees and to build a military force.
We need to arm directly the Kurds.
And all of that has to be done in concert with the Arab nations.
And if we're going to ban all Muslims, how are we going to get them to be part of a coalition to destroy ISIS?
The Kurds are the greatest fighting force and our strongest allies.
They're Muslim.
Look, this is not a serious proposal.
In fact, it will push the Muslim world, the Arab world away from us at a time when we need to reengage with them to be able to create a strategy to destroy ISIS.
So Donald, you know, is great at -- at the one-liners, but he's a chaos candidate.
And he'd be a chaos president.
He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe.
Jeb doesn't really believe I'm unhinged.
He said that very simply because he has failed in this campaign.
It's been a total disaster.
Nobody cares.
And frankly, I'm the most solid person up here.
I built a tremendous company and all I want to do is make America great again.
I don't want our country to be taken away from us, and that's what's happening.
The policies that we've suffered under other presidents have been a disaster for our country.
We want to make America great again.
And Jeb, in all fairness, he doesn't believe that.
Look, he mentioned me.
I can bring -- I can talk.
This is -- this is the problem.
Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we need to do, which is to destroy ISIS.
We need a strategy.
We need to get the lawyers off the back of the warfighters.
Right now under President Obama, we've created this -- this standard that is so high that it's impossible to be successful in fighting ISIS.
We need to engage with the Arab world to make this happen.
It is not a serious proposal to say that -- to the people that you're asking for their support that they can't even come to the country to even engage in a dialogue with us.
That's not a serious proposal.
We need a serious leader to deal with this.
And I believe I'm that guy.
Well, I understand why they feel that way, because this president hasn't kept us safe.
The problem is we had an attack in San Bernardino.
And we were paying attention to the most important issue we have faced in a decade since 9/11, and then all the talk was about this proposal, which isn't going to happen.
But this is what's important to do is we must deal frontally with this threat of radical Islamists, especially from ISIS.
This is the most sophisticated terror group that has ever threatened the world or the United States of America.
They are actively recruiting Americans.
The attacker in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country.
He was a health inspector; had a newborn child and left all that behind to kill 14 people.
We also understand that this is a group that's growing in its governance of territory.
It's not just Iraq and Syria.
They are now a predominant group in Libya.
They are beginning to pop up in Afghanistan.
They are increasingly involved now in attacks in Yemen.
They have Jordan in their sights.
This group needs to be confronted with serious proposals.
And this is a very significant threat we face.
And the president has left us unsafe.
He spoke the other night to the American people to reassure us.
I wish he hadn't spoken at all.
He made things worse.
Because what he basically said was we are going to keep doing what we're doing now, and what we are doing now is not working.
Well, listen, Hugh, everyone understands why Donald has suggested what he has.
We're looking at a president who's engaged in this double-speak where he doesn't call radical Islamic terrorism by its name.
Indeed, he gives a speech after the San Bernardino attack where his approach is to try to go after the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens rather than to keep us safe.
I understand why Donald made that proposal.
I introduced legislation in the Senate that I believe is more narrowly focused at the actual threat, which is radical Islamic terrorism, and what my legislation would do is suspend all refugees for three years from countries where ISIS or Al Qaida control substantial territory.
Well, you know, I'm reminded of what FDR's grandfather said.
He said, "All horse-thieves are Democrats, but not all Democrats are horse-thieves."
In this instance, there are millions of peaceful Muslims across the world, in countries like India, where there is not the problems we are seeing in nations that are controlled -- have territory controlled by Al Qaida or ISIS, and we should direct at the problem, focus on the problem, and defeat radical Islamic terrorism.
It's not a war on a faith; it's a war on a political and theocratic ideology that seeks to murder us.
What I think we need to stand for are solutions.
I offer myself as a leader to the people of this country because I think they're looking for solutions, not lawyers arguing over laws or entertainers throwing out sound bites that draw media attention.
We need to solve the problem.
To solve the problem, we need to do something here at home and something over there in their caliphate.
We need to deny them territory.
But here at home, we need to do two fundamental things.
Number one, we need to recognize that technology has moved on.
The Patriot Act was signed in 2001, roughly.
The iPhone was invented in 2007.
The iPad was invented in 2011.
Snapchat and Twitter, all the rest of it, have been around just for several years.
Technology has moved on, and the terrorists have moved on with it.
Let me tell you a story.
It was escorted by the NSA into headquarters.
We need the private sector's help, because government is not innovating.
Technology is running ahead by leaps and bound.
The private sector will help, just as I helped after 9/11.
I will ask them.
I know them.
Wolf, unfortunately, it's the new normal under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
The fact is that if you listen to Hillary Clinton the other day, what she said to the American people was, as regards to ISIS, my strategy would be just about the same as the president's.
Just about the same as the president's?
We have people across this country who are scared to death.
Because I could tell you this, as a former federal prosecutor, if a center for the developmentally disabled in San Bernardino, California, is now a target for terrorists, that means everywhere in America is a target for these terrorists.
Now, I spent seven years of my life in the immediate aftermath of September 11th doing this work, working with the Patriot Act, working with our law enforcement, working with the surveillance community to make sure that we keep America safe.
What we need to do, Wolf, is restore those tools that have been taken away by the president and others, restore those tools to the NSA and to our entire surveillance and law enforcement community.
We need a president who is going to understand what actionable intelligence looks like and act on it.
And we need a president and a cabinet who understands that the first and most important priority of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of Americans.
As someone who has done it, I will make sure it gets done again.
Well, first of all, Wolf, I said last February that we needed to have people on the ground, troops on the ground in a coalition similar to what we had in the first Gulf War.
I remember when the Egyptian ambassador to the United States stood in the Rose Garden and pledged Arab commitment to removing Saddam Hussein from Kuwait.
Before we came out here tonight, I am told that the Saudis have organized 34 countries who want to join in the battle against terrorism.
First and foremost, we need to go and destroy ISIS.
And we need to do this with our Arab friends and our friends in Europe.
And when I see they have a climate conference over in Paris, they should have been talking about destroying ISIS because they are involved in virtually every country, you know, across this world.
Now, you destroy ISIS in a coalition.
You get joint intelligence with our European friends.
And then here at home, there are things called the Joint Terrorism Task Force, headed by the FBI, and made up of local law enforcement, including state police.
They need the tools.
And the tools involve encryption where we cannot hear what they're even planning.
And when we see red flags, a father, a mother, a neighbor who says we have got a problem here, then we have to give law enforcement the ability to listen so they can disrupt these terrorist attacks before they occur.
We can do this, but we've got to get moving.
Pay me now or pay me a lot more later.
This is the direction we need to go.
Well, Dana, the premise of your question is not accurate.
I'm very proud to have joined with conservatives in both the Senate and the House to reform how we target bad guys.
And what the USA Freedom Act did is it did two things.
But number two in the second half of it that is critical.
You know what the Obama administration keeps getting wrong is whenever anything bad happens they focus on law-abiding citizens instead of focusing on the bad guys.
We need to focus on radical Islamic terrorists and we need to stop them before they carry out acts of terror.
He is and so are those that voted for it.
There were some that voted for it because they wanted to keep it alive and they were afraid the whole program would expire.
Here's the world we live in.
This is a radical jihadist group that is increasingly sophisticated in its ability, for example, to radicalize American citizens, in its inability to exploit loopholes in our legal immigration system, in its ability to capture and hold territory in the Middle East, as I outlined earlier, in multiple countries.
This is not just the most capable, it is the most sophisticated terror threat we have ever faced.
We are now at a time when we need more tools, not less tools.
Well, you know, I would note that Marco knows what he's saying isn't true.
You know, Mark Levin wrote a column last week that says that the attack ads his Super PAC is running that are saying the same thing, that they are knowingly false and they are, in fact, Alinsky-like attacks like Barack Obama.
And the reason is simple.
What he knows is that the old program covered 20 percent to 30 percent of phone numbers to search for terrorists.
The new program covers nearly 100 percent.
That gives us greater ability to stop acts of terrorism, and he knows that that's the case.
Dana, may I interject here?
Let me be very careful when answering this, because I don't think national television in front of 15 million people is the place to discuss classified information.
So let me just be very clear.
There is nothing that we are allowed to do under this bill that we could not do before.
This bill did, however, take away a valuable tool that allowed the National Security Agency and other law -- and other intelligence agencies to quickly and rapidly access phone records and match them up with other phone records to see who terrorists have been calling.
Because I promise you, the next time there is attack on -- an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to want to know is, why didn't we know about it and why didn't we stop it?
And the answer better not be because we didn't have access to records or information that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they attacked.
You know, I think Marco gets it completely wrong.
We are not any safer through the bulk collection of all Americans' records.
In fact, I think we're less safe.
We get so distracted by all of the information, we're not spending enough time getting specific immigration -- specific information on terrorists.
The other thing is, is the one thing that might have stopped San Bernardino, that might have stopped 9/11 would have been stricter controls on those who came here.
And Marco has opposed at every point increased security -- border security for those who come to our country.
On his Gang of Eight bill, he would have liberalized immigration, but he did not -- and he steadfastly opposed any new border security requirements for refugees or students.
Last week, I introduced another bill saying we need more security, we need more scrutiny.
So Marco can't have it both ways.
He thinks he wants to be this, "Oh, I'm great and strong on national defense."
But he's the weakest of all the candidates on immigration.
If we want to defend the country, we have to defend against who's coming in, and Marco is -- has more of an allegiance to Chuck Schumer and to the liberals than he does to conservative policy.
I want to thank Rand for another 30 seconds, because, number one, what he's pointing to is a bill last week that -- amendment that he voted for that only 10 people voted for.
You know why?
Because it's not focused on terrorists.
It would have banned anyone from coming here.
Someone from Taiwan would not have been able to come here as a tourist.
Number two, this program, this metadata program is actually more strict than what a regular law enforcement agency has now.
If a regular law enforcement agency wants your phone records, all they have to do is issue a subpoena.
But now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at them to see who these terrorists are calling.
And the terrorists that attacked us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country.
And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so we could see who he was working with...
If I was mentioned in the question, can I respond?
BASH: Go ahead, please.
Marco still misunderstands the immigration issue.
What I put forward was an amendment that would have temporarily halted immigration from high-risk terrorist countries, but would have started it up, but I wanted them to go through Global Entry, which is a program where we do background checks.
The thing is, is that every terrorist attack we've had since 9/11 has been legal immigration.
Marco wants to expand that.
I want more rules, more scrutiny, and to defend the country, you have to defend the border.
Do I get another 30 seconds?
He mentioned me.
Listen, I want to talk to the audience at home for a second.
If your eyes are glazing over like mine, this is what it's like to be on the floor of the United States Senate.
I mean, endless debates about how many angels on the head of a pin from people who've never had to make a consequential decision in an executive position.
The fact is, for seven years, I had to make these decisions after 9/11, make a decision about how to proceed forward with an investigation or how to pull back, whether you use certain actionable intelligence or whether not to.
And yet they continue to debate about this bill and in the subcommittee and what -- nobody in America cares about that.
What they care about is, are we going to have a president who actually knows what they're doing to make these decisions?
And for the seven years afterwards, New Jersey was threatened like no other region in this country and what we did was we took action within the constitution to make sure that law enforcement had all the information they needed.
We prosecuted two of the biggest terrorism cases in the world and stopped Fort Dix from being attacked by six American radicalized Muslims from a Mosque in New Jersey because we worked with the Muslim American community to get intelligence and we used the Patriot Act to get other intelligence to make sure we did those cases.
This is the difference between actually been a federal prosecutor, actually doing something, and not just spending your life as one of hundred debating it.
Let's talk about how we do this, not about which bill, which one these guys like more.
The American people don't care about that.
First of all, let me just complain a little bit.
This is the first time I've spoken and several people have had multiple questions so please try to pay attention to that.
Now, as far as monitoring is concerned, what my point is, we need to make sure that any place - I don't care whether it's a mosque, a school, a supermarket, a theater, you know it doesn't matter.
If there are a lot of people getting there and engaging in radicalizing activities then we need to be suspicious of it.
We have to get rid of all this PC stuff.
And people are worried about if somebody's going to say that I'm Islamophobic or what have you.
This is craziness because we are at war.
That's why I asked congress, go ahead and declare the war .
We need to be on a war footing.
We need to understand that our nation is in grave danger.
You know, what the Muslim Brotherhood said in the explanatory memorandum that was discovered during the Holy Land Foundation Trial was that, "they will take advantage of our PC attitude to get us.
:"
We have to be better than this.
We have to be smarter than they are.
I think you have to ask them about that.
I don't want to get in between them.
Let them fight.
They are reverent if we want to destroy ISIS.
If we want to destroy radical Islamic terrors, we can't disassociate ourselves from peace loving Muslims.
If we expect to do this on our own, we will fail but if we do it in unison with people who are also are at risk and threatened by Islamic Radical terrorism, we'll be far more successful.
Look, the FBI has the tools necessary un-American activities in our country.
It goes on, we shouldn't even be talking about it, to be honest with you out in the public.
Of course they have those capabilities and we should make sure that we give the FBI, the NSA, our intelligence communities, all the resources they need to keep us safe.
But the main thing we should be focused on is the strategy to destroy ISIS.
And I laid out a plan that the Reagan Library before the tragedy of Paris, and before San Bernardino to do just that.
It requires leadership, it's not filing an amendment and call it a success.
It is developing a strategy, leading the world, funding it to make sure that we have a military that's second to none, and doing the job and making sure that we destroy ISIS there.
That's how you keep America safe.
You know, listening to this conversation, let me just say, we have a lot of argument about laws but none of it solves the problem.
Let's examine what happened, why did we miss the Tsarnaev brothers, why did we miss the San Bernardino couple?
It wasn't because we had stopped collected metadata it was because, I think, as someone who comes from the technology world, we were using the wrong algorithms.
This is a place where the private sector could be helpful because the government is woefully behind the technology curve.
But secondly, the bureaucratic processes that have been in place since 9/11 are woefully inadequate as well.
What do we now know?
That DHS vets people by going into databases of known or suspected terrorists.
And yet, we also know that ISIS is recruiting who are not in those databases.
So of course, we're going to miss them.
And then we now learn that DHS says, "No, we can't check their social media."
For heaven's sakes, every parent in America is checking social media and every employer is as well, but our government can't do it.
The bureaucratic procedures are so far behind.
Our government has become incompetent, unresponsive, corrupt.
And that incompetence, ineptitude, lack of accountability is now dangerous.
It is why we need a different kind of leadership in the White House that understands how to get bureaucracies competent again.
I complied happily.
And they will as well.
Well, look, this is so easy to answer.
ISIS is recruiting through the Internet.
ISIS is using the Internet better than we are using the Internet, and it was our idea.
What I wanted to do is I wanted to get our brilliant people from Silicon Valley and other places and figure out a way that ISIS cannot do what they're doing.
You talk freedom of speech.
You talk freedom of anything you want.
I don't want them using our Internet to take our young, impressionable youth and watching the media talking about how they're masterminds -- these are masterminds.
They shouldn't be using the word "mastermind."
These are thugs.
These are terrible people in ISIS, not masterminds.
And we have to change it from every standpoint.
But we should be using our brilliant people, our most brilliant minds to figure a way that ISIS cannot use the Internet.
And then on second, we should be able to penetrate the Internet and find out exactly where ISIS is and everything about ISIS.
And we can do that if we use our good people.
I would certainly be open to closing areas where we are at war with somebody.
I sure as hell don't want to let people that want to kill us and kill our nation use our Internet.
Yes, sir, I am.
No, I don't think it is.
And I want to go back to two other issues.
One is the metadata.
We know we have to hold this data for a longer period of time.
And, you know, in a lot of ways, Chris is right.
Look, what a president has to do is take a position.
We don't want to err on the side of having less.
We want to err on the side of having more.
That's good for our families.
In addition to that, Wolf, there is a big problem.
It's called encryption.
And the people in San Bernardino were communicating with people who the FBI had been watching.
But because their phone was encrypted, because the intelligence officials could not see who they were talking to, it was lost.
We have to solve the encryption problem.
It is not easy.
A president of the United States, again, has to bring people together, have a position.
We need to be able to penetrate these people when they are involved in these plots and these plans.
And we have to give the local authorities the ability to penetrate to disrupt.
That's what we need to do.
Encryption is a major problem, and Congress has got to deal with this and so does the president to keep us safe.
Right now, Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day.
It is photo op foreign policy.
We need to use overwhelming air power.
We need to be arming the Kurds.
We need to be fighting and killing ISIS where they are.
And let me go back to the earlier discussion a minute ago.
It's not a lack of competence that is preventing the Obama administration from stopping these attacks.
It is political correctness.
The Tsarnaev brothers, the elder brother made a public call to jihad and the Obama administration didn't target it.
Nidal Hasan communicated with Anwar al-Awlaki, a known radical cleric, asked about waging jihad against his fellow soldiers.
The problem is because of political correctness, the Obama administration, like a lot of folks here, want to search everyone's cell phones and e-mails and not focus on the bad guys.
And political correctness is killing people.
You use air power directed -- and you have embedded special forces to direction the air power.
But the object isn't to level a city.
The object is to kill the ISIS terrorists.
To make it -- listen, ISIS is gaining strength because the perception is that they're winning.
And President Obama fuels that perception.
That will change when militants across the globe see that when you join ISIS that you are giving up your life, you are signing your death warrant, and we need a president who is focused on defeating every single ISIS terrorist and protecting the homeland, which should be the first priority.
Well, let me begin by saying that we have to understand who ISIS is.
ISIS is a radical Sunni group.
They cannot just be defeated through air strikes.
Air strikes are a key component of defeating them, but they must be defeated on the ground by a ground force.
And that ground force must be primarily made up of Sunni Arabs themselves, Sunni Arabs that reject them ideologically and confront them militarily.
We will have to embed additional American special operators alongside them to help them with training, to help them conduct special missions, and to help improve the air strikes.
The air strikes are important, but we need to have an air force capable of it.
And because of the budget cuts we are facing in this country, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force we have ever had.
We have to reverse those cuts, in addition to the cuts to our Navy and in addition to the cuts to our Army, as well.
And beyond that, I would say we must win the information war against ISIS.
Every war we have ever been involved in has had a propaganda informational aspect to it.
ISIS is winning the propaganda war.
They are recruiting people, including Americans, to join them, with the promise that they are joining this great apocalyptic movement that is going to defeat the West.
We have to show what life is really like in ISIS territory, and we have to show them why ISIS is not invincible, by going out and conducting these attacks and publicizing them to those who they recruit.
That is accurate.
Three times he voted against the Defense Authorization Act, which is a bill that funds the troops.
It also, by the way, funds the Iron Dome and other important programs.
And I have to assume that if you vote against it in the Senate, you would also veto it as president.
He has also supported, by the way, a budget that is called the containment budget.
And it is a budget that would radically reduce the amount of money we spend on our military.
You can't carpet bomb ISIS if you don't have planes and bombs to attack them with.
And if we continue those cuts that we're doing now, not to mention additional cuts, we are going to be left with the oldest and the smallest Air Force this country has ever had, and that leaves us less safe.
Well, you know, Marco has continued these attacks, and he knows they're not true.
Yes, it is true that I voted against the National Defense Authorization Act, because when I campaigned in Texas I told voters in Texas that I would oppose the federal government having the authority to detain U.S. citizens permanently with no due process.
I have repeatedly supported an effort to take that out of that bill, and I honored that campaign commitment.
But more broadly, you know, the notion Marco is suggesting, that somehow -- he also has tossed more than a few insults this direction -- let's be absolutely clear.
ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism will face no more determined foe than I will be.
We will utterly destroy them by targeting the bad guys.
And one of the problems with Marco's foreign policy is he has far too often supported Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama undermining governments in the Middle East that have helped radical Islamic terrorists.
We need to focus on killing the bad guys, not getting stuck in Middle Eastern civil wars that don't keep America safe.
Yes, let me -- three points of distinction.
The first is, if you're an American citizen and you decide to join up with ISIS, we're not going to read you your Miranda rights.
You're going to be treated as an enemy combatant, a member of an army attacking this country.
Number two, we do need our defense capabilities.
It is a fact that the cuts we are facing today and the cuts that Senator Cruz would have supported would leave us with an even smaller Air Force and a smaller Navy than the one we are going to be left with.
And the final point that I would make is Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's strategy is to lead from behind.
It sounds like what he is outlining is not to lead at all.
We cannot continue to outsource foreign policy.
We must lead.
We are the most powerful nation in the world.
We need to begin to act like it, again.
Wolf...
Wolf, this legislation...
...
I think deserves a little more attention.
We have to be much tougher.
We have to be much stronger than we've been.
We have people that know what is going on.
You take a look at just the attack in California the other day.
They saw a pipe bomb sitting all over the floor.
They saw ammunition all over the place.
They knew exactly what was going on.
They knew what was going on.
They went home and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television.
I would be very, very firm with families.
Frankly, that will make people think because they may not care much about their lives, but they do care, believe it or not, about their families' lives.
Donald, this has got...
This is another example of the lack of seriousness.
Look, this is -- this is troubling because we're at war.
They've declared war on us and we need to have a serious strategy to destroy ISIS.
But the idea that that is a solution to this is just -- is just crazy.
It makes no sense to suggest this.
And he gets his foreign policy experience from the shows.
That is not a serious kind of candidate.
We need someone that thinks this through.
That can lead our country to safety and security.
Look, the problem is we need toughness.
Honestly, I think Jeb is a very nice person.
He's a very nice person.
But we need tough people.
We need toughness.
We need intelligence and we need tough.
Jeb said when they come across the southern border they come as an act of love.
You said on September 30th that ISIS was not a factor.
Am I talking or are you talking, Jeb?
I'm talking right now.
I'm talking.
You can go back.
You're not talking.
You interrupted me.
September 30th you said...
Are you going to apologize, Jeb?
No.
Am I allowed to finish?
Excuse me, am I allowed to finish?
So...
A little of your own medicine there, Donald.
... again...
I know you're trying to build up your energy, Jeb, but it's not working very well.
Look, look, look.
We need a toughness.
We need strength.
We're not respected, you know, as a nation anymore.
We don't have that level of respect that we need.
And if we don't get it back fast, we're just going to go weaker, weaker and just disintegrate.
We can't allow that to happen.
We need strength.
We don't have it.
When Jeb comes out and he talks about the border, and I saw it and I was witness to it, and so was everyone else, and I was standing there, "they come across as an act of love," he's saying the same thing right now with radical Islam.
And we can't have that in our country.
It just won't work.
We need strength.
Donald, you're not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency.
That's not going to happen.
And I do have the strength.
Leadership, leadership is not about attacking people and disparaging people.
Leadership is about creating a serious strategy to deal with the threat of our time.
And I laid out that strategy before the attacks in Paris and before the attacks in San Bernardino.
And it is the way forward.
We need to increase our military spending.
We need to deal with a no- fly zone in Syria, a safe zone.
We need to focus on building a military that is second-to-none...
... so that we can destroy Islamic terrorism.
With Jeb's attitude, we will never be great again, that I can tell you.
We will never be great again.
Neurosurgeon.
Well, interestingly enough, you should see the eyes of some of those children when I say to them we're going to have to open your head up and take out this tumor.
They're not happy about it, believe me.
And they don't like me very much at that point.
But later on, they love me.
Sometimes you -- I sound like him.
You know, later on, you know, they really realize what's going on.
And by the same token, you have to be able to look at the big picture and understand that it's actually merciful if you go ahead and finish the job, rather than death by 1,000 pricks.
You got it.
You got it.
Ruthless is not necessarily the word I would use, but tough, resolute, understanding what the problems are, and understanding that the job of the president of the United States is to protect the people of this country and to do what is necessary in order to get it done.
I think that by arming the allies of ISIS, the Islamic rebels against Assad, that we created a safe space or made that space bigger for ISIS to grow.
I think those who have wanted regime change have made a mistake.
When we toppled Gadhafi in Libya, I think that was a mistake.
I think ISIS grew stronger, we had a failed state, and we were more at risk.
I'd like to also go back to, though, another question, which is, is Donald Trump a serious candidate?
The reason I ask this is, if you're going to close the Internet, realize, America, what that entails.
That entails getting rid of the First amendment, OK?
It's no small feat.
If you are going to kill the families of terrorists, realize that there's something called the Geneva Convention we're going to have to pull out of.
It would defy every norm that is America.
So when you ask yourself, whoever you are, that think you're going to support Donald Trump, think, do you believe in the Constitution?
Are you going to change the Constitution?
So, they can kill us, but we can't kill them?
That's what you're saying.
And as far as the Internet is concerned, we're not talking about closing the Internet.
I'm talking about parts of Syria, parts of Iraq, where ISIS is, spotting it.
Now, you could close it.
What I like even better than that is getting our smartest and getting our best to infiltrate their Internet, so that we know exactly where they're going, exactly where they're going to be.
I like that better.
But we have to -- who would be -- I just can't imagine somebody booing.
These are people that want to kill us, folks, and you're -- you're objecting to us infiltrating their conversations?
I don't think so.
I don't think so.
I think that if you believe in regime change, you're mistaken.
In 2013, we put 600 tons of weapons -- us, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar -- into the war against Assad.
By pushing Assad back, we did create a safe space.
We had people coming to our Foreign Relations Committee and saying, "Oh, we need to arm the allies of Al Qaida."
They are still saying this.
It is a crazy notion.
This is the biggest debate we should be having tonight is is regime change a good idea; has it been a good idea.
There are still people -- the majority on the stage, they want to topple Assad.
And then there will be chaos, and I think ISIS will then be in charge of Syria.
Yeah, let me -- let me just suggest to everybody, and I hear -- last February, I said we needed to have people on the ground in a coalition with Europe and our allies.
This is not going to get done just by working with the Sunnis.
And it is not going to get done if we just embed a few people.
We have to go massively, like we did in the first Gulf War where we destroyed Saddam's ability to take Kuwait.
We need to have a coalition that will stand for nothing less than the total destruction of ISIS and we have to be the leader.
We can't wait for anybody else.
I served on the Armed Services Committee for 18 years and we must lead, or the job won't get done, unfortunately, for our country.
I hope at some point you're going to ask me my strategy.
Well, they most certainly will have to be worked on to provide more than what they are doing now.
There's no doubt about it.
And there's one -- one major reason why they have not been willing to be a broader part of the coalition, and that is they have lost complete trust and confidence in this president.
This president cut a deal with their moral enemy, the Shia, in Iran.
And this is the reason why they no longer trust this president and are willing to work alongside them.
But they have as much invested in this as we do.
In fact, more so, for it is the king of Saudi Arabia they want to behead first.
It's the king of Jordan that they want to dethrone.
It's the -- they want to go into Egypt the way they've already gone into Libya.
And on another point that we need to talk about, Assad is one of the main reasons why ISIS even exists to begin with.
Assad is a puppet of Iran.
And he has been so brutal toward the Sunni within Syria that he created the space that led to the people of Syria themselves to stand up and try to overthrow him.
That led to the chaos which allowed ISIS to come in and take advantage of that situation and grow more powerful.
And the fact that this president led from behind meant there were no alternative groups on the ground to be empowered, leaving ISIS with the prime operating space they needed to become the force they have now become.
Well, first I'll just point out that talking tough is not the same as being strong.
And to wage war, we need a commander in chief who has made tough calls in tough times and stood up to be held accountable over and over, not first-term senators who've never made an executive decision in their life.
One of the things I would immediately do, in addition to defeating them here at home, is bring back the warrior class -- Petraeus, McChrystal, Mattis, Keane, Flynn.
Every single one of these generals I know.
We must have Sunni-Arabs involved in this coalition.
We must commit leadership, strength, support and resolve.
I'll just add that Margaret Thatcher once said, "If you want something talked about, ask a man; if you want something done, ask a woman."
Wolf, you sit up here and you listen to this stuff, and you think that so many of these people have had so much to do in this national debate, they talk like they were bystanders.
You know, we talk about our military being degraded over time, and yet we've had folks on this stage who've been a part of Congress who have participated in sequester; who participated in the degrading of this military over time.
And that's why I think people get so frustrated with Washington, D.C. now.
That's why they're so angry with the -- the electorate is so angry with everybody who is involved in government in Washington, D.C. Because if you listen to the folks up here, you think that they weren't even there; they had nothing to do with this.
This is a difference between being a governor and being in a legislature.
See, because when something doesn't work in New Jersey, they look at me, say: "Why didn't it get done?
Why didn't you do it?"
You have to be responsible and accountable.
And so on ISIS, let's be clear, the president needs to be a force that is trusted in the world.
On this I agree with Marco.
You know, this president is not trusted.
If you're the King of Jordan, if you're a part of the royal family in Saudi Arabia and he's made this deal with Iran which gives them $150 billion to wage a war and try to extend their empire across the Middle East, why would you want to do it now?
First of all, I've been talking about this for over a year.
We have to destroy their caliphate because that gives them legitimacy to go ahead with the global Jihad.
We have to take their energy because they are -- ISIS is the richest terrorist organization there is.
We have to take their oil, shut down all of the mechanisms whereby they can disperse money because they go after disaffected individuals from all over the place, and they're able to pay them.
That makes a difference.
As far as the command centers are concerned in Raqqa and to a lesser degree Mosul, cut those off.
Do the same kind of thing that we did with Sinjar a few weeks ago, working with our embedded special forces with the Kurds, shut off the supply route, soften them up, then we go in with specials ops followed by our air force to take them over.
Those are things that work.
But also, you know, this whole concept of boots on the ground, you know, we've got a phobia about boots on the ground.
If our military experts say, we need boots on the ground, we should put boots on the ground and recognize that there will be boots on the ground and they'll be over here, and they'll be their boots if we don't get out of there now.
Wolf, I believe in a America first foreign policy, that far too often President Obama and Hillary Clinton -- and, unfortunately, more than a few Republicans -- have gotten distracted from the central focus of keeping this country safe.
So let's go back to the beginning of the Obama administration, when Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama led NATO in toppling the government in Libya.
They did it because they wanted to promote democracy.
A number of Republicans supported them.
The result of that -- and we were told then that there were these moderate rebels that would take over.
Well, the result is, Libya is now a terrorist war zone run by jihadists.
Move over to Egypt.
And we need to learn from history.
These same leaders -- Obama, Clinton, and far too many Republicans -- want to topple Assad.
Assad is a bad man.
Gadhafi was a bad man.
Mubarak had a terrible human rights record.
But they were assisting us -- at least Gadhafi and Mubarak -- in fighting radical Islamic terrorists.
And if we topple Assad, the result will be ISIS will take over Syria, and it will worsen U.S. national security interests.
And the approach, instead of being a Woodrow Wilson democracy promoter...
... we ought to hunt down our enemies and kill ISIS rather than creating opportunities for ISIS to take control of new countries.
To begin with, Moammar Gadhafi and the revolt against Gadhafi was not started by the United States.
It was started by the Libyan people.
And the reason why I argued we needed to get involved is because he was going to go one way or the other.
And my argument then was proven true, and that is, the longer that civil war took, the more militias would be formed and the more unstable the country would be after the fact.
As far as Moammar Gadhafi is concerned, by the way, Moammar Gadhafi is the man that killed those Americans over Lockerbie, Scotland.
Moammar Gadhafi is also the man that bombed that cafe in Berlin and killed those Marines.
And you want to know why Moammar Gadhafi started cooperating on his nuclear program?
Because we got rid of Saddam Hussein.
And so he got scared that he would be next, and that's why he started cooperating.
Look, we will have to work around the world with less than ideal governments.
The government in Saudi Arabia is not a democracy, but we will have to work with them.
The government in Jordan is not perfect, but we will have to work with them.
But anti-American dictators like Assad, who help Hezbollah, who helped get those IEDs into Iraq, if they go, I will not shed a tear.
Well, it's more than not shedding a tear.
It's actively getting involved to topple a government.
And we keep hearing from President Obama and Hillary Clinton and Washington Republicans that they're searching for these mythical moderate rebels.
It's like a purple unicorn.
They never exist.
And I'll tell you whose view on Assad is the same as mine.
It's Prime Minister Netanyahu.
Prime Minister Netanyahu has said Israel doesn't have a dog in that fight because Assad is a puppet of Iran, a Shia radical Islamic terrorist, but at the same time, Prime Minister Netanyahu doesn't want to see Syria governed by ISIS.
And we need to focus on American interests, not on global aspirations...
I don't understand this thing about Assad.
He has to go.
Assad is aligned with Iran and Russia.
The one thing we want to prevent is we want to prevent Iran being able to extend a Shia crescent all across the Middle East.
Assad has got to go.
And there are moderates there.
There are moderates in Syria who we should be supporting.
I do not support a civil war.
I don't want to be policeman of the world.
But we can't back off of this.
And let me tell you, at the end, the Saudis have agreed to put together a coalition inside of Syria to stabilize that country.
He must go.
It will be a blow to Iran and Russia.
In my opinion, we've spent $4 trillion trying to topple various people that frankly, if they were there and if we could've spent that $4 trillion in the United States to fix our roads, our bridges, and all of the other problems; our airports and all of the other problems we've had, we would've been a lot better off.
I can tell you that right now.
We have done a tremendous disservice, not only to Middle East, we've done a tremendous disservice to humanity.
The people that have been killed, the people that have wiped away, and for what?
It's not like we had victory.
It's a mess.
The Middle East is totally destabilized.
A total and complete mess.
I wish we had the $4 trillion or $5 trillion.
I wish it were spent right here in the United States, on our schools, hospitals, roads, airports, and everything else that are all falling apart.
That is exactly what President Obama said.
I'm amazed to hear that from a republican presidential candidate.
But let's just start with, who got it wrong?
Who really got it wrong?
Hillary Clinton has gotten every foreign policy challenge wrong.
Hitting the reset button with Vladimir Putin - recall that she called Bashar Al-Assad a positive reformer and then she opened an embassy and then later she said, over, and over, and over again, "Bashar Al-Assad must go."
Although she wasn't prepared to do anything about it.
Recall that Hillary Clinton was all for toppling Gadhafi then didn't listen to her own people on the ground.
And then of course, when she lied about the terrorist attack in Benghazi, she invited more terrorist attacks.
Well, there's nothing to respond to.
Well, people feel differently.
I mean, the fact is Benghazi was a disaster because of Libya, everything just fell into place.
It could not have been worse.
What do we have now?
We have nothing.
Thousands and thousands of lives, we have nothing.
Wounded warriors all over the place who I love, we have nothing for it.
And by the way - and Ben said incorrectly - and I'm not saying this as a knock - he's one of finest men.
You're not going to find a finer men.
But I've been talking about oil for three years.
I've been saying,, "take the oil, take the oil."
I didn't say, "just bomb it," I said," take it and use it and distribute it so that the wounded warriors -" People, I've been saying this now for many years.
Now, all of a sudden everybody's saying, "take the oil."
It wasn't so fashionable to take the oil six months ago.
I've been saying it for years.
We've mismanaged going into Iraq.
We've mismanaged going out of Iraq.
No one is ever better off with dictators but there comes a time you know, when you're on an airplane, they always say, "in case of an emergency oxygen masks will drop down.
Put yours on first and then administer help to your neighbor."
We need oxygen right now.
And we need to start thinking about the needs of the American people before we go and solve everybody else's problems.
The fact of the matter is, is that the Middle East has been in turmoil for thousands of years.
For us to think that we're going to in there and fix that with a couple of little bombs and a few little decorations is relatively foolish.
We actually...
I think we're focusing a whole...
I do.
I think the lesson's learned are that we have to have to have a strategy to get and a strategy to get out.
Which means, that you create a stable situation.
This president and this is what the focus ought to be, it's not the differences between us, it's Barack Obama does not believe America's leadership in the world is a force for good.
He does not believe that our strength is a place where security can take place.
He leads from behind.
He creates an environment that now we're creating the most unstable situation we've had since the World War II era.
The focus ought to be on the single fact that Hillary Clinton wants to double down on a failed foreign policy and we need to be united to defeat that because we're going to be in a place that is far less secure than it is today.
Don't you all agree?
These are the fundamental questions of our time, these foreign policy questions, whether or not regime change is a good idea or a bad idea.
I don't think because I think the regime change was a bad idea it means that Hussein was necessarily a good idea.
There is often variations of evil on both sides of the war.
What we have to decide is whether or not regime change is a good idea.
It's what the neoconservatives have wanted.
It's what the vast majority of those on the stage want.
They still want regime change.
They want it in Syria.
They wanted it in Iraq.
They want it in Libya.
It has not worked.
Out of regime change you get chaos.
From the chaos you have seen repeatedly the rise of radical Islam.
So we get this profession of, oh, my goodness, they want to do something about terrorism and yet they're the problem because they allow terrorism to arise out of that chaos.
The question of whether we should toppling dictatorships is asking the wrong question.
We should be defeating our enemies.
So the problem with defeating...
Well, but let me explain, the focus should be...
... on defeating our enemies.
So, for example...
... because Iran has declared war on us.
But we shouldn't be toppling regimes...
... that are fighting radical Islamic terrorists that are helping...
I think Assad is a bad guy, a very bad guy, all right?
Lots of people killed.
I think we are backing people we have no idea who they are.
The rebels, we call them the rebels, the patriotic rebels.
We have no idea.
A lot of people think, Hugh, that they are ISIS.
We have to do one thing at a time.
We can't be fighting ISIS and fighting Assad.
Assad is fighting ISIS.
He is fighting ISIS.
Russia is fighting now ISIS.
And Iran is fighting ISIS.
We have to do one thing at a time.
We can't go -- and I watched Lindsey Graham, he said, I have been here for 10 years fighting.
Well, he will be there with that thinking for another 50 years.
He won't be able to solve the problem.
We have to get rid of ISIS first.
After we get rid of ISIS, we'll start thinking about it.
But we can't be fighting Assad.
And when you're fighting Assad, you are fighting Russia, you're fighting -- you're fighting a lot of different groups.
But we can't be fighting everybody at one time.
Well, I think we have to focus, Hugh, on exactly what the priorities are.
And to me, what I've always said is that the president has set up an awful situation through his deal with Iran, because what his deal with Iran has done is empower them and enrich them.
And that's the way ISIS has been created and formed here.
ISIS is created and formed because of the abuse that Assad and his Iranian sponsors have rained down on the Sunnis in Syria.
And so when we empower Iran, this is why this president -- and when Hillary Clinton says her theory against ISIS will be just about the same as the president, then get ready for more unrest and more murder and more violence in the Middle East.
We need to focus our attention on Iran, because if you miss Iran, you are not going to get ISIS.
The two are inextricably connected because one causes the other.
No, I think it's a huge mistake.
I think regime change in Syria, and this is what -- I've been saying this for several years now.
In 2013 when we first went in, I said, you are going to give arms to the allies of al Qaida, to radical jihadists?
That's crazy.
But the other thing I said is the great irony is you will be back fighting against your own weapons.
Had Assad been bombed when he used chemical weapons two years ago, ISIS would be in charge of all of Syria now.
We have to have a more realistic foreign policy and not a utopian one where we say, oh, we're going to spread freedom and democracy, and everybody in the Middle East is going to love us.
They are not going to love us.
The foreign policy, you have to know how to pick and choose.
There's no way, if Saddam had not had weapons of mass destruction, I would have gone, because I don't believe that the U.S. should be involved directly in civil wars.
I opposed the U.S. involvement in Lebanon.
We ended up having to withdraw our marines after our barracks were blown up.
There is a difference between Iraq, where you have Sunni, Shia, and Kurds put together after the First World War by the Western powers.
It doesn't work.
It needs to break up into three parts.
And for the Russians, frankly, it's time that we punched the Russians in the nose.
They've gotten away with too much in this world and we need to stand up against them, not just there, but also in Eastern Europe where they threaten some of our most precious allies.
I didn't say I would cut off all communication with Putin.
What I said was as president of the United States, now is not the time to talk with him.
Reagan walked away at Reykjavik.
There is a time and a place for everything.
There is a time and a place for talk.
And there is a time and a place for action.
He respects strength.
He lied to our president's face; didn't both to tell him about warplanes and troops going into Syria.
We need to speak to him from a position of strength.
So as commander in chief, I will not speak to him until we've set up that no-fly zone; until we've gathered our Sunni-Arab allies and begun to deny ISIS territory; until I've called the supreme leader of Iran and told him new deal -- new deal.
We the United States of America are going to cut off the money flow, which we can do; which we don't need anyone's permission or collaboration to do.
And I will not speak to him personally until we've rebuilt the 6th Fleet a little bit right under his nose; rebuilt the missile defense program in Poland right under his nose; and conducted a few military exercises in the Baltic states.
And let us remember one other thing.
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are responsible for the growth of ISIS because they precipitously withdrew from Iraq in 2011 against the advice of every single general and for political expediency.
It's not these people up here.
It's Hillary Clinton.
Not only would I be prepared to do it, I would do it.
A no-fly zone means a no-fly zone, Wolf.
That's what it means.
See, maybe -- maybe because I'm from New Jersey, I just have this kind of plain language hangup.
But I would make very clear -- I would not talk to Vladimir Putin.
In fact, I would talk to Vladimir Putin a lot.
But I'd say to him, "Listen, Mr. President, there's a no-fly zone in Syria; you fly in, it applies to you."
And yes, we would shoot down the planes of Russian pilots if in fact they were stupid enough to think that this president was the same feckless weakling that the president we have in the Oval Office is right now.
Well, I think if you're in favor of World War III, you have your candidate.
You know, here's...
... the thing.
My goodness, what we want in a leader is someone with judgment, not someone who is so reckless as to stand on the stage and say, "Yes, I'm jumping up and down; I'm going to shoot down Russian planes."
Russia already flies in that airspace.
It may not be something we're in love with the fact that they're there, but they were invited by Iraq and by Syria to fly in that airspace.
And so if we announce we're going to have a no-fly zone, and others have said this.
Hillary Clinton is also for it.
It is a recipe for disaster.
It's a recipe for World War III.
We need to confront Russia from a position of strength, but we don't need to confront Russia from a point of recklessness that would lead to war.
This is something -- this type of judgment, you know, it's having that kind of judgment; who you would appoint and how you're going to conduct affairs, that is incredibly important.
I mean, I think when we think about the judgment of someone who might want World War III, we might think about someone who might shut down a bridge because they don't like their friends; they don't want to -- you know, they want to (inaudible) a Democrat.
So I think we need to be very careful.
Well, Wolf, I'll tell you what reckless is.
What reckless is is calling Assad a reformer.
What reckless is allowing Russia to come into Crimea and Ukraine.
What reckless is is inviting Russia into Syria to team with Iran.
That is reckless.
And the reckless people are the folks in the White House right now.
Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are the reckless people.
And if you think that a no-fly zone is a reckless policy, you're welcome to your opinion.
But how is it working so far?
As we have 250,000 Syrians murdered, slaughtered; millions running around the world, running for their lives.
It's not working.
We need to try something else.
And that is not reckless.
Because I -- first of all, I know what I don't know.
I know what I don't know.
I would seek out, as I have, the best advice that exists.
I won't get my information from the shows.
I don't know if that's Saturday morning or Sunday morning.
I don't know which one.
I will seek out the best advice, and I will create a strategy and I will persuade the American people what the role of America should be.
I've laid out a policy of rebuilding our military.
All of the talk that we're seeing here -- most of which I agree on, frankly -- requires a much stronger military.
We now have a lack of readiness that is quite scary.
We have planes that were -- that Harry Truman inaugurated, the B-52.
We have -- the Navy has been gutted and decimated.
The readiness of the Marines is way down.
If we're serious about America's leadership in the world, then we need to make sure that we have the back of the armed forces.
The Armed Forces Radio is here listening to this today.
I hope they know that if I'm president, I'll be a commander-in-chief, not an agitator- in-chief or a divider-in-chief, that I will lead this country in a way that will create greater security and greater safety.
I think it's very sad that CNN leads Jeb Bush, Governor Bush, down a road by starting off virtually all the questions, "Mr. Trump this, Mister" -- I think it's very sad.
And, frankly, I watched -- I think it's very sad.
And, frankly, I watched the first debate, and the first long number of questions were, "Mr. Trump said this, Mr. Trump said that.
Mr. Trump" -- these poor guys -- although, I must tell you, Santorum, good guy.
Governor Huckabee, good guy.
They were very nice, and I respect them greatly.
But I thought it was very unfair that virtually the entire early portion of the debate was Trump this, Trump that, in order to get ratings, I guess.
In order to get ratings, I guess.
I just think it's very -- excuse me.
Excuse me.
I think it's very unprofessional.
Well, I think it's very unprofessional.
OK, fine.
So I was -- I was -- I was mentioned, so I can bring up something, I think, right?
Look, the simple fact is, if you think this is tough you're not being treated fairly...
This isn't tough and easy.
I wish it...
... imagine what it's going to be like dealing with Putin or dealing with President Xi.
I wish it was always this easy as you, Jeb.
Or dealing with the Islamic terrorism that exists.
Oh, yeah.
This is a tough business to run for president.
Oh, I know.
You're a tough guy, Jeb.
I know.
And it's -- and we need...
... to have a leader that is...
You're never going to be president of the United States by insulting your way to the presidency.
Well, let's see.
I'm at 42, and you're at 3.
So, so far, I'm doing better.
Doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter.
So far, I'm doing better.
You know, you started off over here, Jeb.
You're moving over further and further.
Pretty soon you're going to be off the end...
This doesn't do a thing to solve the problems.
It doesn't do a thing to solve the problems.
It sounds more and more what my daughter said that I said in the beginning, all the fighting and arguing is not advancing us.
It will not solve the problem.
It is not the way we're going to strengthen our country.
We will strengthen our country when we come together.
And, look, you've got Rand Paul, you've got Ted Cruz, you've got Marco, you've got a lot of people on this stage that have studied these issues.
You know what a leader does?
A leader has a sound program, has a good policy, and then brings people together to solve problems.
Guess what?
Both in Congress in balancing the budget and in Ohio fixing the economy -- and, by the way, we talk about the fence.
The first thing we better get going is strengthening our economy, because if we don't have a strong economy, we can't pay for all of this.
And the world wants us to be able to function from strength, believe it or not.
Get our economy going, get these people together in a room.
We can fix this, ladies and gentlemen.
We don't have to fight all the time.
It can be done, and we will be great...
... when we join together.
Thank you, Hugh.
Well, you know, there's a false narrative that only the political class has the wisdom and the ability to be commander-in- chief.
But if you go back and you study the design of our country, it was really designed for the citizen statesman.
And we need to be talking about where does your experience come from?
You know, and I've had a lot of experience building things, organizing things, you know, a national scholarship program.
One of the things that you'll notice if you look through my life is that I don't do a lot of talking.
I do a lot of doing.
And really, it says more about a person than how much they talk.
And then some people say you're weak because, you know, you're not loud and you're not boisterous and you're not rude.
But the fact of the matter is, look and see what I've done.
And that speaks volumes about strength.
Yeah.
Immigration is not an issue that I read about in the newspaper or watch a documentary on PBS or CNN.
It's an issues I've lived around my whole life.
My family are immigrants.
My wife's family are immigrants.
All of my neighbors are immigrants.
I see every aspect of this problem.
The good, the bad, and the ugly.
And here's what we learned in 2013.
The American people don't trust the Federal Government to enforce our immigration laws, and we will not be able to do anything on immigration until we first prove to the American people that illegal immigration is under control.
And we can do that.
We know what it takes to do that.
It takes at least 20,000 more additional border agents.
It takes completing those 700 miles of fencing.
It takes a mandatory e-verify system and a mandatory entry/exit tracking system to prevent overstays.
After we have done that, the second thing we have to do is reform and modernize the legal immigration system.
And after we have done those two things, I think the American people are gonna be reasonable with what do you do with someone who has been in this country for 10 or 12 years who hasn't otherwise violated our laws -- because if they're a criminal they can't stay.
They'll have to undergo a background check, pay a fine, start paying taxes.
And ultimately, they'll given a work permit and that's all they're gonna be allowed to have for at least 10 years.
But you can't get to that third step until you have done the other two things, and that was the lesson we learned in 2013.
There is no trust that the Federal Government will enforce the law.
They will not support you until you see it done first.
But I've answered that question repeatedly.
I am personally open -- after all that has happened and after ten years in that probationary status where all they have is a permit, I personally am open to allowing people to apply for a green card.
That may not be a majority position in my party, but that's down the road.
You can't even begin that process until you prove to people -- not just pass a law that says you're gonna bring illegal immigration under control.
You're gonna have to do it and prove to people that it's working.
And that was the lesson of 2013.
And it's more true today, than it was then.
After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has issued.
More than ever we need to...
... prove to people that illegal immigration is under control.
Well, he -- he has attempted to muddy the waters, but I think that anyone who watched the battle that we had.
You know, there was a time for choosing as Reagan put it.
Where there was a battle over amnesty and some chose, like Senator Rubio to stand with Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer and support a massive amnesty plan.
Others chose to stand with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and the American people and secure the border.
And let me mention, this issue is actually directly connected to what we've been talking about.
Because the front line with ISIS isn't just in Iraq and Syria, it's in Kennedy Airport and the Rio Grande.
Border security is national security.
Now we've seen what happened in San Bernardino.
When you are letting people in, when the FBI can't vet them, it puts American citizens at risk.
And I tell you, if I'm elected president, we will secure the border.
We will triple the border patrol.
We will build a wall that works and I'll get Donald Trump to pay for it.
Yeah, a couple points.
In 2013 we had never faced a crisis like the Syrian refugee crisis now.
Up until that point, a refugee meant someone fleeing oppression, fleeing Communism like it is in my community.
As far as Ted's record, I'm always puzzled by his attack on this issue.
So I think what's important for us to understand and there is a way forward on this issue that we an bring our country together on.
And while I'm president I will do it.
And it will begin by bringing illegal immigration under control and proving to the American people.
Look, I understand Marco wants to raise confusion, it is not accurate what he just said that I supported legalization.
Indeed, I led the fight against his legalization and amnesty.
And you know, there was one commentator that put it this way that, for Marco to suggest our record's the same is like suggesting "the fireman and the arsonist because they are both at the scene of the fire."
He was fighting to grant amnesty and not to secure the border, I was fighting to secure the border.
And this also goes to trust, listening on to campaign trails.
Candidates all the time make promises.
You know, Marco said," he learned that the American people didn't trust the federal government."
No, no, give him time.
In Florida promising to...
Ted, do you...
go in the fight against amnesty...
Did Ted Cruz fight to support legalizing people that are in this country illegally?
He campaigned promising to lead the fight against amnesty.
Ladies and gentleman, this is why the American people are standing up.
Does Ted Cruz rule out ever legalizing people that are in this country now?
Would you rule it out?
Let me tell you how you do this, what you do is you enforce the law...
This is why the nation is fed up...
Watt you do is enforcement the law...
We have been talking about this...
Sorry, but you haven't gotten to me.
This is why...
What you do...
the people are fed up with the political class.
What you do is you enforce the law.
I've laid out a very, very detailed immigration plan on my website, tedcruz.org.
It's 11 pages of existing federal law and in particular the question of what to do with people who are here now?
You enforce the law.
That means you stop the Obama administration's policy of releasing criminal illegal aliens.
We can enforce the laws and if we secure the border, that solves the problem.
And as president I will solve this problem and secure the border.
I have a very hardline position, we have a country or we don't have a country.
People that have come into our country illegally, they have to go.
They have to come back into through a legal process.
I want a strong border.
I do want a wall.
Walls do work, you just have to speak to the folks in Israel.
Walls work if they're properly constructed.
I know how to build, believe me, I know how to build.
I feel a very, very strong bind, and really I'm bound to this country, we either have a border or we don't.
People can come into the country, we welcome people to come but they have to come in legally.
Yes.
No it isn't but it is an important subject to talk about for sure.
And I think people have good ideas on this.
Clearly, we need to secure the border.
Coming here legally needs to be a lot easier than coming here illegally.
If you don't have that, you don't have the rule of law.
We now have a national security consideration, public health issues, we have an epidemic of heroine overdoses in all places in this country because of the ease of bringing heroine in.
We have to secure the border.
It is a serious undertaking and yes, we do need more fencing and we do need to use technology, and we do need more border control.
And we need to have better cooperation by the way with local law enforcement.
There are 800,000 cops on the beat, they ought to be trained to be the eyes and ears for law enforcement for the threat against terror as well as for immigration.
This is a serious challenge and if we can get it right, yes, we'll start winning votes again.
The real problem isn't anybody on this stage, the real problem is Barack Obama has had six years to advocate a position to fix this and he's done nothing.
The congress has funded these programs of building more fencing and doing all this and he hasn't done it.
He wants to maintain it as a wedge issue and so does Hillary Clinton.
Republicans need to fix it and when we do, we'll be better off.
Well, it was very interesting having an opportunity to talk to the Syrians themselves.
And I asked them: What do you want?
What is your supreme desire?
Their supreme desire was to be settled back in their own country.
I said, "What can Americans and other countries do?"
They said, "Support the efforts of those who are trying to provide safety for us, including the Jordanians."
Of course, they had a brand new hospital, for instance, that was unstaffed because there wasn't enough money to do it.
But here's what's really neat.
If you go into Hasakah province in northeast Syria, that's an area that's as big as Lebanon.
It's controlled by the Kurds, the Christians and the moderate Sunnis.
And there are airstrips and hotels.
You could settle a lot of people there.
All we would have to do is be willing to provide them with some weaponry, some defensive weaponry.
And we seem to be afraid to give the Kurds weaponry.
We like to send it for some strange reason through Baghdad, and then they only get a tenth of it.
And if we would support them, we'd have a perfect ideal there.
We don't need to set this up as we either take a bunch of refugees who will be infiltrated with terrorists, I guarantee you.
For them not to be would be terrorist malpractice.
And we need to -- to choose the right choice, not these false choices.
You know, I think we need to set the record straight on this, because I think Marco misspoke about the bill.
On the Gang of Eight bill, there was no provisions really for extra scrutiny or safety for refugees.
At the time the bill came up, two Iraqi refugees came to my home town, Bowling Green, Kentucky.
Their fingerprints were on a bomb from Iraq.
They were in the database, but we didn't pick them up.
We relocated them here, put them in government housing, got them on food stamps.
And we began providing for them, but we didn't have adequate security.
On the Gang of Eight bill, on Marco's bill, we had an opportunity.
There was a conservative consensus for an amendment I put forward called Trust, But Verify that would have strengthened border security on both refugees, students and those coming here.
And Marco sided and I guess was more sympathetic to Chuck Schumer and to the president than he was to conservative principles.
But this goes directly to national defense.
And if he wants to run as a national -- national defense conservative, he's got to explain why he hasn't stepped up to support border security.
Well, he's just admitted -- as he's just admitted, the reason why those refugees were allowed in was because they messed up in how they used the actual database.
They should have know.
They didn't because they didn't run the actual law as it exists now.
It didn't work well.
As far as the refugees are concerned, it's not that America doesn't want to accept refugees, Wolf.
It's that we may not be able to, because this is an issue we have to be 100 percent right on.
If we allow 9,999 Syrian refugees into the United States, and all of them are good people, but we allow one person in who's an ISIS killer -- we just get one person wrong, we've got a serious problem.
And there is not a single person in the national defense apparatus of this country that can guarantee you are going to be 100 percent right.
And that's why as president, I'll take this very seriously.
What my bill would do would be only for refugees going forward.
So I haven't taken a position on sending anyone home.
But I have taken the position that we have a lot of problems here in our country.
And that one of the things that we do -- charity is about giving your own money.
Charity isn't giving someone else's money.
To put everyone in government housing and food stamps and bring them in from around the world I think is a mistake.
To give of your own money, I've given to my church.
My church has helped people that came from Bosnia.
That's a good thing.
But we shouldn't have a program where we just say that we're going to take care of the world's refugees.
Nobody in the Middle East is doing anything.
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait -- all the Gulf nations are doing nothing.
They need to step up and take...
What I say to Carla is that the first job of the president of the United States is to protect your safety and your security and the security and safety of your family.
And this debate stops with me in the discussions with the FBI director.
Now, listen, I'm a former federal prosecutor, I know Jim Comey.
We've worked together.
He was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan when I was a U.S. attorney in New Jersey.
And when Jim Comey gets up before Congress and says, we cannot effectively vet these people, for me as president, that's the end of the conversation.
We have to put America's security first.
The American people -- we on this stage need to open our ears.
We need to open our ears.
The American people are not whispering to us.
They are screaming to us.
And they're screaming to us that it's our job to actually make this government work.
It's so dysfunctional under Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
It's so ineffective.
It's so ineffectual that the American people say, we don't trust them to do anything anymore.
So I'm not going to let Syrian refugees, any Syrian refugees in this country.
And it was widows and orphans, by the way, and we now know from watching the San Bernardino attack that women can commit heinous, heinous acts against humanity just the same as men can do it.
And so I don't back away from that position for a minute.
When the FBI director tells me that he can vet those people, then we'll consider it and not a moment before because your safety and security is what's most important to me.
You know, obviously, as president of the United States, we've got to keep the people safe.
That's first and foremost.
But as governor of Ohio, I have an obligation to keep the 11.5 million people in Ohio safe.
And we have been very effective with our Joint Terrorism Task Force, being able to make busts.
In fact, we just made one three-four weeks ago against a person who was favorable to ISIS living in Akron.
But let me tell you what is interesting about the administration.
We had Central American miners that were placed in Ohio, and we never knew a thing about it.
We didn't know where they were.
And, in fact, we know now that some of them, there is a case going on where some of them may have been human-trafficked.
So when the administration tells me we have a great vetting process, the proof is in the pudding.
They sent these miners to us.
Our schools were disrupted.
We didn't know where they were.
And bad things happened to them.
And now they tell me that we ought to be able to admit these Syrian refugees.
So, Wolf, look, people have accused me at times of having too big of a heart.
You know, that's OK.
But I have to also to say I must keep the people of my state safe.
So we take a pause.
Well, first, Kim Jong-Un is a dangerous leader, without a doubt.
And both Republican and Democrat administrations have been completely ineffective in dealing with him.
So we must continue to isolate him.
We will need China as part of that strategy.
China is a rising adversary.
So one of the things we have to do if we want China's support is to push back on China.
They, too, recognize one thing -- strength and their own economic interest.
I have done business in China for 25 years, so I know that in order to get China to cooperate with us, we must first actually retaliate against their cyber-attacks so they know we're serious.
We have to push back on their desire to control the trade route through the South China Sea through which flows $5 trillion worth of goods and services every year.
We cannot let them control the disputed islands, and we must work with the Australians, the South Koreans, the Japanese and the Filipinos to contain China.
And then we must ask for their support and their help with North Korea.
Because believe it or not, China is as concerned about Kim Jong-Un as we are.
Well, I definitely believe that he is unstable, and I do, in fact, believe that China has a lot more influence with him than we do.
But we also recognize that North Korea is in severe financial straits, and they have decided to use their resources to build their military, rather than to feed their people and to take care of the various humanitarian responsibilities that they have.
We can capitalize upon that.
You know, we should use our economic power in lots of different ways.
I think we can use that in order to keep Putin contained, because he is a one-horse show.
Energy.
And we have an abundance of energy, but we have archaic energy exportation rules.
We need to get rid of those, allow ourselves to really make Europe dependent on us and other parts of the world dependent on us for energy.
Put him back in his little box where he belongs.
And, you know, we need to be doing lots of other things with the resources that we have.
So economic power works just as well as military power, perhaps even better.
And speaking of that, our Military needs to be upgraded.
You know, you look at things like our Ohio Class submarines, they're 25 years old.
Our minuteman 3 missiles -- they are 34 years old.
Our B-52 bombers -- 50 years old.
You know, if we don't get the military right nothing else matters.
Well, what it would like is, we have one of the great advantages of America being the open society that we are.
It is, we are not hiding things from the American people, but China everyday is conducting business in a way that hides things from their people.
So if they want to come in and attack all the personnel records in the federal government, which they've done, and which -- they now have my Social Security number and my fingerprints, as well as maybe some other folks' who are on this stage.
The fact is, they need to be fought back on.
And what we need to do is go at the things that they are most sensitive and most embarrassing to them; that they're hiding; get that information and put it out in public.
Let the Chinese people start to digest how corrupt the Chinese government is; how they steal from the Chinese people; and how they're enriching oligarchs all throughout China.
They need to understand that.
And we need to take those type of steps.
This president has seen personnel records of people who have sacrificed for the American people and for the federal government stolen by the Chinese and he's done nothing in return.
This is why -- this is what I said at the beginning that this administration, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton through their foreign policy, have betrayed the American people, because the weakness they've displayed has led to Putin's incursions in the Middle East and in eastern Europe, and has led -- has led to significant problems in the Middle East as well, and the death and murder of lots of folks.
I completely agree with Chris.
And this administration has been so lax.
Think about it.
Hillary Clinton is using a private server for -- where classified information go by.
This is a -- this is a serious administration?
The president receives an inspector general's report that the Office of Personnel Management could be hacked into; they had antiquated firewalls; 23 million files have been -- are in the hands of the Chinese allegedly, including, by the way, members of the press, it turns out, last week.
Maybe that's the only part that's good news, so that you guys can get a feel for what it's like now to see this type of attack.
This is something -- we have to have the best defensive capabilities.
We need to coordinate all of our efforts with the private sector.
We need to give them liability relief so that we can do that.
And offensively, we need to have capabilities second to none.
We need to create a situation where they know that there will be adverse impacts if they continue to do what they're doing.
They'll respect that.
They'll respect a United States that is serious about protecting our -- our infrastructure.
If we don't do it, we'll continue to see what's -- exactly what's happening, not just from the Chinese, by the way.
The Russians and rogue actors, including ISIS -- this is a serious part of the 21st century security challenge that we face.
Well, first of all, I think we need somebody absolutely that we can trust, who is totally responsible; who really knows what he or she is doing.
That is so powerful and so important.
And one of the things that I'm frankly most proud of is that in 2003, 2004, I was totally against going into Iraq because you're going to destabilize the Middle East.
I called it.
I called it very strongly.
And it was very important.
But we have to be extremely vigilant and extremely careful when it comes to nuclear.
Nuclear changes the whole ball game.
Frankly, I would have said get out of Syria; get out -- if we didn't have the power of weaponry today.
The power is so massive that we can't just leave areas that 50 years ago or 75 years ago we wouldn't care.
It was hand-to-hand combat.
The biggest problem this world has today is not President Obama with global warming, which is inconceivable, this is what he's saying.
The biggest problem we have is nuclear -- nuclear proliferation and having some maniac, having some madman go out and get a nuclear weapon.
That's in my opinion, that is the single biggest problem that our country faces right now.
I think -- I think, for me, nuclear is just the power, the devastation is very important to me.
I do.
First, let's explain to people at home who the triad -- what the triad is.
Maybe a lot of people haven't heard that terminology before.
The triad is our ability of the United States to conduct nuclear attacks using airplanes, using missiles launched from silos or from the ground, and also from our nuclear subs' ability to attack.
And it's important -- all three of them are critical.
It gives us the ability at deterrence.
Now, some have become more critical than others; for example, the submarines.
And that's the Ohio Class submarine that needs to be modernized.
The air component also needs to be modernized.
The B-52, as someone earlier pointed out, is an outdated model that was flown by the grandparents of people that are flying it now.
And we need a serious modernization program as well on our silo-launched missiles.
All three are critical for the defense of the country.
I did.
Let me just say that I have gotten to know him over the last three or four days.
He has a wonderful temperament.
He's just fine.
Don't worry about it.
You better not attack...
Dana, what I said in private is exactly what I'll say here, which is that the judgment that every voter is making of every one of us up here is who has the experience, who has the vision, who has the judgment to be commander in chief.
That is the most important decision for the voters to make.
That's a standard I'm held to.
And it's a standard everyone else is held to.
And I will note, you know, in the whole course of this discussion about our foreign policy threats, it actually illustrates the need for clarity of focus.
You know, my daughters, Caroline and Catherine, came tonight.
They're 7 and 5.
And you think about the Los Angeles schools canceling their schools today.
And every parent is wondering, how do we keep our kids safe?
We need a commander in chief who does what Ronald Reagan did with communism, which is he set out a global strategy to defeat Soviet communism.
And he directed all of his...
I'm answering the question, Dana.
He directed all of his forces to defeating communism.
One of the things we've seen here is how easy it is for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton to get distracted from dealing with radical Islamic terrorism.
They won't even call it by its name.
We need a president who stands up, number one, and says, we will defeat ISIS.
And number two, says the greatest national security threat facing America is a nuclear Iran.
And we need to be focused on defeating...
... defeating radical Islamic terrorists.
What I'm saying, Dana, is that is a judgment for every voter to make.
What I can tell you is all nine of the people here would make an infinitely better commander in chief than Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton.
And there is a real danger, Dana, when people get distracted.
I'm answering the question, Wolf.
There's a real danger when people get distracted by peripheral issues.
They get distracted by democracy building.
They get distracted about military conflicts.
We need to focus on defeating jihadism.
ISIS and Iran have declared war on America, and we need a commander in chief who will do everything necessary to keep our children safe.
And I will do everything necessary to keep our children safe.
I really am.
I'll be honest, I really am.
I mean, the people have been putting me...
I really am.
Let me just.
Can I just finish my...
I've gained great respect for the Republican leadership.
I've gained great respect for many -- and I'm going to even say -- I mean, in different forms for the people on the dais, in different forms.
In different forms.
But I have great respect for the people I have met through this process.
I've never done this process before.
I've never been a politician.
I mean, for the last six months I've been a politician.
But I will tell you, I am totally committed to the Republican Party.
I feel very honored to be the front runner.
And I think I'll do very well if I'm chosen.
If I'm so fortunate to be chosen, I think I'll do very well.
Polls have come out recently saying I would beat Hillary.
I will do everything in my power to beat Hillary Clinton, I promise you.
Well, you know, the statement that I made last week, that I would leave the party was contingent upon whether in fact the party acts like they have in the past with a lot of subterfuge and dishonesty, or like they're going act now because I spike to Reince Priebus, and he assured me that the Washington Post writer had it all wrong, and that they're not be engaging in anything to thwart the will of the people.
That's why I got into this race, as a member of we the people, to try bring some honesty and integrity back to the process.
The greatest threat to our national security is our debt.
We borrow a million dollars a minute.
And whose fault is it?
Well, frankly, it's both parties' fault.
You have those on the right who clamor and say, oh, we will spend anything on the military, and those on the left who say the same for domestic welfare.
But what most Americans don't realize is there is an unholy alliance.
They come together.
There's a secret handshake.
We spend more money on everything.
And we are not stronger nation if we go further into debt.
We are not projecting power from bankruptcy court.
To me, there is no greater threat than our debt.
I'm the only fiscal conservative on the stage because I'm willing to hold the line on all spending.
I hope you will consider me in the election.
Thank you very much.
I lost touch with them for six hours that day and prayed that they were alive.
Luckily, they were sent home.
But many of our friends and others in our neighborhood lost their lives that day.
Terrorism -- radical jihadist terrorism is not theoretical to me.
It's real.
And for seven years, I spent my life protecting our country against another one of those attacks.
You won't have to worry when I'm President of the Untied States whether that can be done because I've already done it.
I want the chance to do it again to protect you, your children and your families.
If you give me the chance and give me your vote I will protect America from the wars that are being brought to our door step.
I too remember September 11th.
I remember immediately putting into place security procedures all throughout our company that did business in 170 countries where we thought corporate interests would be attacked next.
To take our country back, to keep our nation safe, we have to begin by beating Hillary Clinton.
We need to unify our party.
We need to better than our government, which 75 percent of the American people now think is corrupt and incompetent.
They're right.
We need to better than our politics.
80 percent think we have a professional/political class of both parties that cares more about its power, position and privilege than actually on getting anything done.
We need to unify our party, we need a real Conservative in the White House, and we need to beat Hillary Clinton to take our country back and keep our nation safe.
I can.
I am.
And together, if you join me, we will take our country back.
Thank you.
As we near the end of this year, we enter one of the most important elections in a generation.
For what's at stake in this election is not simply what party's going to be in charge.
But our very identity as a people and as a nation.
For over 200 years this has been a special country.
A unique place where anyone from anywhere can achieve anything.
But now millions of Americans feel like they're being left behind.
Insecure in their future and unsafe in the face of terrorism.
This election is about electing a president that will restore our economic vibrancy so that the American dream can expand to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
And rebuild our Military and our intelligence programs so that we can remain the strongest nation on earth.
Tonight I ask you for your vote.
If you do this, we will rebuild this country, and together we will usher in a new American century -- the greatest era in the history of this great land.
Judgment, strength, clarity and trust.
Barack Obama has said he doesn't believe in American leadership or America winning -- he is wrong.
America can win again and we will win again.
Ronald Reagan reignited the American economy, rebuilt the Military, bankrupted the Soviet Union and defeated Soviet Communism.
I will do the same thing.
Cutting taxes, cutting regulation, unleashing small businesses and rebuilding the Military to defeat radical Islamic terrorism -- our strategy is simple.
We win, they lose.
We've done it before and we can do it again.
I've been fortunate enough to travel to 58 different countries and I thank God everyday that I was born in this country.
The most exceptional country that the world has ever known.
And I want to make sure that we preserve that exceptionalism for the next generation.
My mother told me if I work hard and I really believed in American principles and I believed in God, anything is possible.
I believe that is true, and that's why I'm not anxious to give away American values and principles for the sake of political correctness.
Our country doesn't win anymore.
We don't win on trade.
We don't win on the military.
We can't defeat ISIS.
We're not taking care of our great people, the veterans.
We're not taking care of them.
We have to change our whole way, our health care system is a disaster.
It's going to implode in 2017, just like you're sitting there.
It doesn't work.
Nothing works in our country.
If I'm elected president, we will win again.
We will win a lot.
And we're going to have a great, great country, greater than ever before.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well, Gwen and Judy, thank you very much for hosting this event.
And, PBS, thank you.
Nine months ago, our campaign began.
And when it began, we had no political organization, no money, and not much name recognition outside of the state of Vermont.
A lot has happened in nine months.
And what has happened is, I think, the American people have responded to a series of basic truths, and that is that we have today a campaign finance system which is corrupt, which is undermining American democracy, which allows Wall Street and billionaires to pour huge sums of money into the political process to elect the candidates of their choice.
And aligned with a corrupt campaign finance system is a rigged economy.
And that's an economy where ordinary Americans are working longer hours for low wagers.
They are worried to death about the future of their kids.
And then in addition to that, the American people are looking around and they see a broken criminal justice system.
They see kids getting arrested for marijuana, getting in prison, getting a criminal record, while they see executives on Wall Street who pay billions of dollars in settlements and get no prosecution at all.
No criminal records for them.
I think what our campaign is indicating is that the American people are tired of establishment politics, tired of establishment economics.
They want a political revolution in which millions of Americans stand up, come together, not let the Trumps of the world divide us, and say, you know what, in this great country, we need a government that represents all of us, not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors.
Thank you.
I'm running for president to knock down all the barriers that are holding Americans back, and to rebuild the ladders of opportunity that will give every American a chance to advance, especially those who have been left out and left behind.
I know a lot of Americans are angry about the economy.
And for good cause.
And yes, the economy is rigged in favor of those at the top.
We both agree that we have to get unaccountable money out of our political system and that we have to do much more to ensure that Wall Street never wrecks main street again.
But I want to go further.
I want to tackle those barriers that stand in the way of too many Americans right now.
African-Americans who face discrimination in the job market, education, housing, and the criminal justice system.
Hardworking immigrant families living in fear, who should be brought out of the shadows so they and their children can have a better future.
Guaranteeing that women's work finally gets the pay, the equal pay that we deserve.
I think America can only live up to its potential when we make sure that every American has a chance to live up to his or her potential.
That will be my mission as president.
And I think together we will make progress.
Well, to put that in a context, Judy, I think we have to understand that in the last 30 years in this country there has been a massive transfer of wealth going from the hands of working families into the top one-tenth of 1% whose percentage of wealth has doubled.
In other words, the very rich are getting richer, almost everybody is going -- getting poorer.
What I believe is the United States, in fact, should join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee healthcare to all people.
Our Medicare for all single-payer proposal will save the average middle class family $5,000 a year.
I do believe that in the year 2016 we have to look in terms of public education as colleges as part of public education making public colleges and universities tuition free.
I believe that when real unemployment is close to 10%, and when our infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, our water systems, Flint, Michigan comes to mind.
Our waste water plants, our rail, our airports, in many places are disintegrating.
Yeah, we can create 13 million jobs by rebuilding our infrastructure at a cost of a trillion dollars.
... Of course there will be a limit, but when today you have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, when the middle class is disappearing, you have the highest rate of child poverty of almost any major country on Earth.
Yes, in my view, the government of a democratic society has a moral responsibility to play a vital role in making sure all of our people have a decent standard of living.
CLINTON: Judy, I think that the best analysis that I've seen based on Senator Sanders plans is that it would probably increase the size of the federal government by about 40%, but what is most concerning to me is that in looking at the plans -- let's take healthcare for example.
Last week in a CNN town hall, the Senator told a questioner that the questioner would spend about $500 dollars in taxes to get about $5,000 dollars in healthcare.
Every progressive economist who has analyzed that says that the numbers don't add up, and that's a promise that cannot be kept, and it's really important now that we are getting into the rest of the country that both of us are held to account for explaining what we are proposing because, especially with healthcare, this is not about math.
This is about people's lives, and we should level with the American people about what we can do to make sure they get quality affordable healthcare.
Well, let us level with the American people.
Secretary Clinton has been going around the country saying Bernie Sanders wants to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, people are going to lose their MedicAid, they're going to lose their CHIP program.
I have fought my entire life to make sure that healthcare is a right for all people.
We're not going to dismantle everything.
But, here is the truth.
Millions of people have high deductibles and co-payments.
What I said, and let me repeat it, I don't know what economists Secretary Clinton is talking to, but what I have said, and let me repeat it, that yes, the middle -- the family right in the middle of the economy would pay $500 dollars more in taxes, and get a reduction in their healthcare costs of $5,000 dollars.
In my view healthcare is a right of all people, not a privilege, and I will fight for that.
I can only say that we both share the goal of universal health care coverage.
You know, before it was called Obamacare, it was called Hillarycare.
And I took on the drug companies and I took on the insurance companies to try to get us universal health care coverage.
And why I am a staunch supporter of President Obama's principal accomplishment -- namely the Affordable Care Act -- is because I know how hard it was to get that done.
We are at 90 percent coverage.
We have to get the remaining 10.
I've set forth very specific plans about how to get costs down, especially prescription drug costs.
And it is difficult to in any way argue with the goal that we both share.
But I think the American people deserve to know specifically how this would work.
If it's Medicare for all, then you no longer have the Affordable Care Act, because the Affordable Care Act, as you know very well, is based on the insurance system, based on exchanges, based on a subsidy system.
The Children's Health Insurance Program, which I helped to create, which covers 8 million kids, is also a different kind of program.
So if you're having Medicare for all, single-payer, you need to level with people about what they will have at the end of the process you are proposing.
And based on every analysis that I can find by people who are sympathetic to the goal, the numbers don't add up, and many people will actually be worse off than they are right now.
That is absolutely inaccurate.
Look, here is the reality, folks.
There is one major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all people.
There is one major country -- the United States -- which ends up spending almost three times per capita what they do in the U.K. guaranteeing health care to all people, 50 percent more than they do in France guaranteeing health care to all people, far more than our Canadian neighbors, who guarantee health care to all people.
Please do not tell me that in this country, if -- and here's the if -- we have the courage to take on the drug companies, and have the courage to take on the insurance companies, and the medical equipment suppliers, if we do that, yes, we can guarantee health care to all people in a much more cost effective way.
Well, let me just -- let me just say, once again...
... that, having been in the trenches fighting for this, I believe strongly we have to guarantee health care.
I believe we are on the path to doing that.
The last thing we need is to throw our country into a contentious debate about health care again.
And we are not England.
We are not France.
We inherited a system that was set up during World War II; 170 million Americans get health insurance right now through their employers.
So what we have tried to do and what President Obama succeeded in doing was to build on the health care system we have, get us to 90 percent coverage.
We have to get the other 10 percent of the way to 100.
I far prefer that and the chances we have to be successful there than trying to start all over again, gridlocking our system, and trying to get from zero to 100 percent.
No.
But it is absolutely fair and necessary for Americans to vet both of our proposals, to ask the really hard questions about, what is it we think we can accomplish, why do we believe that, and what would be the results for the average American family?
In my case, whether it's health care, or getting us to debt-free tuition, or moving us toward paid family leave, I have been very specific about where I would raise the money, how much it would cost, and how I would move this agenda forward.
I've tried to be as specific to answer questions so that my proposals can be vetted, because I feel like we have to level with people for the very reason, Gwen, that you are mentioning.
There is a great deal of skepticism about the federal government.
I'm aware of that.
It comes from the right, from the left, from people on all sides of the political spectrum.
So we have a special obligation to make clear what we stand for, which is why I think we should not make promises we can't keep, because that will further, I think, alienate Americans from understanding and believing we can together make some real changes in people's lives.
I will put a price tag.
And what I have said is I will not throw us further into debt.
I believe I can get the money that I need by taxing the wealthy, by closing loopholes, the things that we are way overdue for doing.
And I think once I'm in the White House we will have enough political capital to be able to do that.
But I am conscious of the fact that we have to also be very clear, especially with young people, about what kind of government is going to do what for them and what it will cost.
Well, Secretary Clinton, you're not in the White House yet.
For example, all right, who in America denies that we have an infrastructure that is crumbling?
Roads, bridges, water systems, wastewater plants, who denies that?
We need to create jobs.
So yes, I will do away with the outrageous loopholes that allow profitable multinational corporations to stash billions of dollars in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda and in a given year pay zero, zero in federal income tax.
Yes, I'm going to do away with that.
We will use those proceeds, a hundred billion a year, to invest in rebuilding our infrastructure.
Yes, I believe that as a result of the illegal behavior on Wall Street, that they are a Wall Street that drove this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Recession -- Great Depression.
Yes, I do believe that now after the American people bailed Wall Street out, yes, they should pay a Wall Street speculation tax so that we can make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
We bailed them out.
Now it is their time to help the middle class.
You know, I think, again, both of us share the goal of trying to make college affordable for all young Americans.
And I have set forth a compact that would do just that for debt-free tuition.
We differ, however, on a couple of key points.
One of them being that if you don't have some agreement within the system from states and from families and from students, it's hard to get to where we need to go.
And Senator Sanders's plan really rests on making sure that governors like Scott Walker contribute $23 billion on the first day to make college free.
I am a little skeptical about your governor actually caring enough about higher education to make any kind of commitment like that.
A brief response.
Here is where we are with public education.
A 100, 150 years ago incredibly brave Americans said, you know what, working class kids, low income kids should not have to work in factories or on the farms.
Like rich kids, they deserve to get a free education.
And that free education of extraordinary accomplishment was from first grade to 12th grade.
The world has changed.
This is 2016.
In many ways, a college degree today is equivalent to what a high school degree was 50, 60 years ago.
So, yes, I do believe that when we talk about public education in America, today, in a rapidly changing world, we should have free tuition at public colleges and universities.
That should be a right of all Americans regardless of the income of their families.
Well, first, Judy, I have spent my entire adult life working toward making sure that women are empowered to make their own choices, even if that choice is not to vote for me.
I believe that it's most important that we unleash the full potential of women and girls in our society.
And I feel very strongly that I have an agenda, I have a record that really does respond to a lot of the specific needs that the women in our country face.
So I'm going to keep making that case.
I'm going to keep making sure that everything I've done, everything that I stand for is going to be well known.
But I have no argument with anyone making up her mind about who to support.
I just hope that by the end of this campaign there will be a lot more supporting me.
That's what I'm working towards.
Well, look, I think that she's been saying that for as long as I've known her, which is about 25 years.
But it doesn't change my view that we need to empower everyone, women and men, to make the best decisions in their minds that they can make.
That's what I've always stood for.
And when it comes to the issues that are really on the front lines as to whether we're going to have equal pay, paid family leave, some opportunity for, you know, women to go as far as their hard work and talent take them, I think that we still have some barriers to knock down, which is why that's at the core of my campaign.
I would note, just for a historic aside, somebody told me earlier today we've had like 200 presidential primary debates, and this is the first time there have been a majority of women on the stage.
So, you know, we'll take our progress wherever we can find it.
Look, we are fighting for every vote that we can get from women, from men, straight, gay, African-Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans.
We are trying to bring America together around an agenda that works for working families and the middle class.
I am very proud, if my memory is not correct -- I think I am -- that I have a lifetime -- and I've been in Congress a few years -- a lifetime 100 percent pro-choice voting record.
I am very proud that over the years we have had the support in my state of Vermont from very significant majorities of women.
And we will join the rest of the other -- the industrialized world in saying that paid family and medical leave should be a right of all working families.
Well, you know, I think, from a historical point of view, somebody with my background, somebody with my views, somebody who has spent his entire life taking on the big money interests, I think a Sanders victory would be of some historical accomplishment, as well.
You know, I have said -- I have said many times, you know, I'm not asking people to support me because I'm a woman.
I'm asking people to support me because I think I'm the most qualified, experienced, and ready person to be the president and the commander- in-chief.
And I appreciate greatly Senator Sanders' voting record.
And I was very proud to get the endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, because I've been a leader on these issues.
I have gone time and time again to take on the vested interests who would keep women's health care decisions the province of the government instead of women ourselves.
I'm very proud that NARAL endorsed me because when it comes to it we need a leader on women's issues.
Somebody who, yes, votes right, but much more than that, leads the efforts to protect the hard-fought gains that women have made, that, make no mistake about it, are under tremendous attack, not just by the Republican presidential candidates but by a whole national effort to try to set back women's rights.
So I'm asking women, I'm asking men, to support me because I'm ready to go into the White House on January 20th, 2017 and get to work on both domestic and foreign policy challenges.
Let me concur with the secretary, no question women's rights are under fierce attack all over this country.
And I will tell you something that really galls me.
I will not shock anybody to suggest that in politics there is occasionally a little bit of hypocrisy.
Just a little bit.
All over this country we have Republican candidates for president saying we hate the government.
Government is the enemy.
We're going to cut Social Security to help you.
We're going to cut Medicare and Medicaid, federal aid to education to help you, because the government is so terrible.
But, by the way, when it comes to a woman having to make a very personal choice, ah, in that case, my Republican colleagues love the government and want the government to make that choice for every woman in America.
If that's not hypocrisy, I don't know what hypocrisy is.
This is one of the great tragedies in our country today.
And we can no longer continue to sweep it under the rug.
It has to be dealt with.
Today a male African-American baby born today stands a one-in-four chance of ending up in jail.
That is beyond unspeakable.
So what we have to do is the radical reform of a broken criminal justice system.
What we have to do is end over-policing in African- American neighborhoods.
The reality is that both the African-American community and the white community do marijuana at about equal rates.
The reality is four times as many blacks get arrested for marijuana.
Truth is that far more blacks get stopped for traffic violations.
The truth is that sentencing for blacks is higher than for whites.
We need fundamental police reform, clearly, clearly, when we talk about a criminal justice system.
I would hope that we could all agree that we are sick and tired of seeing videos on television of unarmed people, often African-Americans, shot by police officers.
What we have got to do is make it clear that any police officer who breaks the law will, in fact, be held accountable.
You know, I completely agree with Senator Sanders.
The first speech I gave in this campaign back in April was about criminal justice reform and ending the era of mass incarceration.
The statistics from Wisconsin are particularly troubling, because it is the highest rate of incarceration for African-Americans in our nation, twice the national average.
And we know of the tragic, terrible event that lead to the death of Dontre Hamilton right here in Milwaukee, a young man unarmed, who should still be with us.
His family certainly believes that.
And so do I.
So we have work to do.
There have been some good recommendations about what needs to happen.
President Obama's policing commission came out with some.
I have fully endorsed those.
But we have to restore policing that will actually protect the communities that police officers are sworn to protect.
And, then we have to go after sentencing, and that's one of the problems here in Wisconsin because so much of what happened in the criminal justice system doesn't happen at the federal level, it happens at the state and local level.
But, I would also add this.
There are other racial discrepancies.
Really systemic racism in this state, as in others, education, in employment, in the kinds of factors that too often lead from a position where young people, particularly young men, are pushed out of school early, are denied employment opportunities.
So, when we talk about criminal justice reform, and ending the era of mass incarceration, we also have to talk about jobs, education, housing, and other ways of helping communities.
Nothing that Secretary Clinton said do I disagree with.
This mandatory sentencing, a very bad idea.
It takes away discretion from judges.
We have got to demilitarize local police departments so they do not look like occupying armies.
We have got to make sure that local police departments look like the communities they serve in their diversity.
And, where we are failing abysmally is in the very high rate of recidivism we see.
People are being released from jail without the education, without the job training, without the resources that they need to get their lives together, then they end up -- we're shocked that they end up back in jail again.
So, we have a lot of work to do.
But, here is a pledge I've made throughout this campaign, and it's really not a very radical pledge.
Here's my promise, at the end of my first term as president we will not have more people in jail than any other country.
We will invest in education, and jobs for our kids, not incarceration and more jails.
Well, I'm just not sure I agree completely with that assessment.
We have a lot more social media, we have everybody with a cellphone.
So, we are seeing the dark side of the remaining systemic racism that we have to root out in our society.
I think President Obama has set a great example.
I think he has addressed a lot of these issues that have been quite difficult, but he has gone forward.
Now, what we have to do is to build on an honest conversation about where we go next.
We now have much more information about what must be done to fix our criminal justice system.
We now have some good models about how better to provide employment, housing and education.
I think what President Obama did was to exemplify the importance of this issue as our first African American president, and to address it both from the President's office, and through his advocacy, such as working with young men, and Mrs. Obama's work with young women.
But, we can't rest.
We have work to do, and we now know a lot more than we ever did before.
So, it's going to be my responsibility to make sure we move forward to solve these problems that are now out in the open.
Nobody can deny them.
To use the Justice Department, as we just saw, they have said they are going to sue Ferguson, that entered into a consent agreement, and then tried to back out.
So, we're going to enforce the law, we're going to change policing practices, we're going to change incarceration practices, but we're also going to emphasize education, jobs, and housing.
Well, I think, Judy, what has to be appreciated is that, as a result of the disastrous and illegal behavior on Wall Street, millions of lives were hurt.
People lost their jobs, their homes, their life savings.
Turns out that the African-American community and the Latino community were hit especially hard.
So when you have childhood African-American poverty rates of 35 percent, when you have youth unemployment at 51 percent, when you have unbelievable rates of incarceration -- which, by the way, leaves the children back home without a dad or even a mother -- clearly, we are looking at institutional racism.
We are looking at an economy in which the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.
And sadly, in America today, in our economy, a whole lot of those poor people are African-American.
Absolutely, because what we will do is say, instead of giving tax breaks to billionaires, we are going to create millions of jobs for low-income kids so they're not hanging out on street corners.
We're going to make sure that those kids stay in school or are able to get a college education.
And I think when you give low-income kids -- African-American, white, Latino kids -- the opportunities to get their lives together, they are not going to end up in jail.
They're going to end up in the productive economy, which is where we want them.
White people?
Look, I am deeply concerned about what's happening in every community in America, and that includes white communities, where we are seeing an increase in alcoholism, addiction, earlier deaths.
People with a high school education or less are not even living as long as their parents lived.
This is a remarkable and horrifying fact.
And that's why I've come forward with, for example, a plan to revitalize coal country, the coalfield communities that have been so hard hit by the changing economy, by the reduction in the use of coal.
You know, coal miners and their families who helped turn on the lights and power our factories for generations are now wondering, has our country forgotten us?
Do people not care about all of our sacrifice?
And I'm going to do everything I can to address distressed communities, whether they are communities of color, whether they are white communities, whether they are in any part of our country.
I particularly appreciate the proposal that Congressman Jim Clyburn has -- the 10-20-30 proposal -- to try to spend more federal dollars in communities with persistent generational poverty.
And you know what?
If you look at the numbers, there are actually as many, if not more white communities that are truly being left behind and left out.
So, yes, I do think it would be a terrible oversight not to try to address the very real problems that white Americans -- particularly those without a lot of education whose jobs have -- you know, no longer provided them or even no longer present in their communities, because we have to focus where the real hurt is.
And that's why, as president, I will look at communities that need special help and try to deliver that.
Yeah, you can, because African-Americans and Latinos not only face the general economic crises of low wages, and high unemployment, and poor educational opportunities, but they face other problems, as well.
So, yes, we can talk about it as a racial issue.
But it is a general economic issue.
And here's what the economic issue is.
The wages that high school graduates receive today are significantly less, whether you are white or black, than they used to be.
Why is that?
Because of a series of disastrous trade policies which have allowed corporate America through NAFTA and Permanent Normal Trade Relations with China, Secretary Clinton and I disagree on those issues.
But view is those trade policies have enabled corporate America to shut down in this country, throw millions of people out on the street.
Now no one thinks that working in the factory is the greatest job in the world.
But you know what, you can make a middle class wage, you have decent health care, decent benefits.
You once had a pension.
Those jobs, in many cases, are now gone.
They're off to China.
Now you are a worker, white worker, black worker, who had a decent job, that manufacturing job is gone.
What have you got now?
You are working at McDonald's?
That is why there is massive despair all over this country.
People have worked their entire lives.
They're making a half, two-thirds what they used to make.
Their kids are having a hard time finding any work at all.
And that's why this study, which shows that if you can believe it today, for white working class people between 45 and 54, life expectancy is actually going down.
Suicide, alcoholism, drugs, that's why we need to start paying attention to the needs of working families in this country, and not just a handful of billionaires who have enormous economic and political power.
The answer is yes.
We've got 11 million undocumented people in this country.
I have talked to some of the young kids with tears rolling down their cheeks, are scared to death that today they may or their parents may be deported.
I believe that we have got to pass comprehensive immigration reform, something that I strongly supported.
I believe that we have got to move toward a path toward citizenship.
I agree with President Obama who used executive orders to protect families because the Congress, the House was unable or refused to act.
And in fact I would go further.
What would motivate me and what would be the guiding light for me in terms of immigration reform, Judy, is to bring families together, not divide them up.
And let me say this also.
Somebody who is very fond of the president, agrees with him most of the time, I disagree with his recent deportation policies.
And I would not support those.
Bottom line is a path towards citizenship for 11 million undocumented people, if Congress doesn't do the right thing, we use the executive orders of the president.
I strongly support the president's executive actions.
I hope the Supreme Court upholds them.
I think there is constitutional and legal authority for the president to have done what he did.
I am against the raids.
I'm against the kind of inhumane treatment that is now being visited upon families, waking them up in the middle of the night, rounding them up.
We should be deporting criminals, not hardworking immigrant families who do the very best they can and often are keeping economies going in many places in our country.
I'm a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform.
Have been ever since I was in the Senate.
I was one of the original sponsors of the DREAM Act.
I voted for comprehensive immigration reform in 2007.
Senator Sanders voted against it at that time.
Because I think we have to get to comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
And as president I would expand enormous energy, literally call every member of Congress that I thought I could persuade.
Hopefully after the 2016 election, some of the Republicans will come to their senses and realize we are not going to deport 11 or 12 million people in this country.
And they will work with me to get comprehensive immigration reform.
Secretary Clinton, I do have a disagreement here.
If my memory is correct, I think when we saw children coming from these horrendous, horrendously violent areas of Honduras and neighboring countries, people who are fleeing drug violence and cartel violence, I thought it was a good idea to allow those children to stay in this country.
That was not, as I understand it, the secretary's position.
In terms of 2007 immigration reform, yeah, I did vote against it.
I voted against it because the Southern Poverty Law Center, among other groups, said that the guest-worker programs that were embedded in this agreement were akin to slavery.
Akin to slavery, where people came into this country to do guest work were abused, were exploited, and if they stood up for their rights, they'd be thrown out of this country.
So it wasn't just me who opposed it.
It was LULAC, one of the large Latino organizations in this country.
It was the AFL-CIO.
It was some of the most progressive members of the United States Congress who opposed it for that reason.
But we are where we are right now.
And where we are right now is we have got to stand up to the Trumps of the world who are trying to divide us up.
What we have to do right now is bring our people together and understand that we must provide a path towards citizenship for 11 million undocumented people.
Two quick responses.
One, with respect to the Central American children, I made it very clear that those children needed to be processed appropriately, but we also had to send a message to families and communities in Central America not to send their children on this dangerous journey in the hands of smugglers.
I've also called for the end of family detention, for the end of privately-run detention centers, along with private prisons, which I think are really against the common good and the rule of law.
And with respect to the 2007 bill, this was Ted Kennedy's bill.
And I think Ted Kennedy had a very clear idea about what needed to be done.
And I was proud to stand with him and support it.
Well, that just wasn't -- that just wasn't the fact, Senator.
The fact is that there was a great effort made by the Obama administration and others to really send a clear message, because we knew that so many of these children were being abused, being treated terribly while they tried to get to our border.
So we have a disagreement on this.
I think now what I've called for is counsel for every child so that no child has to face any kind of process without someone who speaks and advocates for that child so that the right decision hopefully can be made.
OK. You know, you judge a nation not by the number of millionaires and billionaires it has, but by how you treat, we treat, the most vulnerable and fragile people in our nation.
And by those standards, we're not doing particularly well.
And in terms of seniors, there are millions of seniors -- and I've talked to them in my state of Vermont and all over this country -- who are trying to get by on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year Social Security.
And you know what?
You do the arithmetic.
You can't get by on $11,000, $12,000, $13,000 a year.
And here's an area where Secretary Clinton and I believe we have a difference.
And when we -- and when we do that, we don't do what the Republicans want, which is to cut Social Security.
Yes, the wealthiest people, the top 1.5 percent, will pay more in taxes.
But a great nation like ours should not be in a position where elderly people are cutting their pills in half, where they don't have decent nutrition, where they can't heat their homes in the wintertime.
That is not what America should be about.
If elected president, I will do everything I can to expand Social Security benefits, not just for seniors, but for disabled veterans, as well.
I think -- I think it's fair to say we don't have a disagreement.
We both believe there has to be more money going into the Social Security system.
I've said I'm looking at a couple of different ways, one which you mentioned, Senator, but also trying to expand the existing tax to passive income that wealthy people have so that we do get more revenue into the Social Security Trust Fund.
I have a slightly different approach, though, about what we should do with that initially.
First, rather than expand benefits for everyone, I do want to take care of low-income seniors who worked at low-wage jobs.
I want to take care of women.
When the Social Security program was started in the 1930s, not very many women worked.
And women have been disadvantaged ever since.
They do not get any credit for their care-taking responsibilities.
And the people who are often the most hard-hit are widows, because when their spouse dies, they can lose up to one-half of their Social Security monthly payment.
So we have no disagreement about the need to buttress Social Security, get more revenue into the program.
But I want to start by helping those people who are most at risk, the ones who, yes, are cutting their pills in half, who don't believe they can make the rent, who are worried about what comes next for them.
In all due respect...
In all due respect, Secretary Clinton, a lot of the progressive groups, the online groups have really asked you a simple question.
Are you coming onboard a proposal?
And what is that proposal?
Now, the proposal that I have outlined, you know, should be familiar to you, because it is what essentially Barack Obama campaigned on in 2008.
You opposed him then.
I would hope that you would come onboard and say that this is the simple and straightforward thing to do.
We're asking the top 1.5 percent, including passive income, to start paying a little bit more so that the elderly and disabled vets in this country can live with security and dignity.
I hope you will make a decision soon on this.
Well, Senator, look, I think we're in vigorous agreement here.
We both want to get more revenue in.
I have yet to see a proposal that you're describing that the -- raising the cap would apply to passive income.
That has not been...
That's my bill.
Check it out.
Well, that has not been a part of most of the proposals that I've seen.
I'm interested in making sure we get the maximum amount of revenue from those who can well afford to provide it.
So I'm going to come up with the best way forward.
We're going to end up in the same place.
We're going to get more revenue.
I'm going to prioritize those recipients who need the most help first.
I can't speak for the Koch Brothers, you're referring to a Super PAC that we don't coordinate with, that was set up to support President Obama, that has now decided that they want to support me.
They are the ones who should respond to any questions.
Let's talk about our campaigns.
I'm very proud of the fact that we have more than 750 thousand donors, and the vast majority of them are giving small contributions.
So, I'm proud of Senator Sanders, and his supporters.
I think it's great that Senator Sanders, President Obama and I have more donors than any three people who have every run, certainly on the Democratic side.
That's the way it should be, and I'm going to continue to reach out to thank all my online contributors for everything they are doing for me, to encourage them and help me do more just as Senator Sanders is.
I think that is the real key here.
We both have a lot of small donors.
I think that sets us apart from a lot of what's happening right now on the Republican side.
The Koch Brothers have a very clear political agenda.
It is an agenda, in my view, that would do great harm to our country.
We're going to fight it as hard as we can, and we're going to fight whoever the Republicans nominate who will depend on the Koch Brothers, and others.
What we are talking about in reality is a corrupt campaign finance system, that's what we're talking about.
We have to be honest about it.
It is undermining American democracy.
When extraordinarily wealthy people make very large contributions to Super PACs, and in many cases in this campaign, Super PACs have raised more money than individual candidates have, OK?
We had a decision to make early on, do we do a Super PAC?
And, we said no.
We don't represent Wall Street, we don't represent the billionaire class, so it ends up I'm the only candidate up here of the many candidates who has no Super PAC.
But, what we did is we said to the working families of this country, look, we know things are tough, but if you want to help us go beyond establishment politics, and establishment economics, send us something.
And, it turns out that up until -- and this has blown me away, never in a million years would I have believed that I would be standing here tonight telling you that we have received three and a half million individual contributions from well over a million people.
Now, Secretary Clinton's Super PAC, as I understand it, received $25 million dollars last reporting period, $15 million dollars from Wall Street.
Our average contribution is $27 dollars, I'm very proud of that.
We are mixing apples and oranges.
My 750,000 donors have contributed more than a million and a half donations.
I'm very proud.
That, I think, between the two of us demonstrates the strength of the support we have among people who want to see change in our country.
But, the real issue, I think, that the Senator is injecting into this is that if you had a Super PAC, like President Obama has, which now says it wants to support me.
It's not my PAC.
If you take donations from Wall Street, you can't be independent.
I would just say, I debated then Senator Obama numerous times on stages like this, and he was the recipient of the largest number of Wall Street donations of anybody running on the Democratic side ever.
Now, when it mattered, he stood up and took on Wall Street.
He pushed through, and he passed the Dodd-Frank regulation, the toughest regulations since the 1930's.
So, let's not in anyway imply here that either President Obama or myself, would in anyway not take on any vested interested, whether it's Wall Street, or drug companies, or insurance companies, or frankly, the gun lobby to stand up to do what's best for the American people.
The people aren't dumb.
Why in God's name does Wall Street...
But let's not -- but let's not -- let's not insult -- let's not insult the intelligence of the American people.
People aren't dumb.
Why in God's name does Wall Street make huge campaign contributions?
I guess just for the fun of it; they want to throw money around.
Why does the pharmaceutical industry make huge campaign contributions?
Any connection maybe to the fact that our people pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs?
Why does the fossil fuel industry pay -- spend huge amounts of money on campaign contributions?
Any connection to the fact that not one Republican candidate for president thinks and agrees with the scientific community that climate change is real and that we have got to transform our energy system?
And when we talk about Wall Street, let's talk about Wall Street.
I voted for Dodd-Frank, got an important amendment in it.
In my view, it doesn't go anywhere near far enough.
But when we talk about Wall Street, you have Wall Street and major banks have paid $200 billion in fines since the great crash.
No Wall Street executive has been prosecuted.
Well, let's just -- let's just follow up on this, because, you know, I've made it very clear that no bank is too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail, and because of Dodd-Frank, we now have in law a process that the president, the Federal Reserve, and others can use if any bank poses a systemic risk.
I think that's a major accomplishment.
I agree, however, it doesn't go far enough, because what it focuses on are the big banks, which Senator Sanders has talked about a lot, for good reason.
I go further in the plan that I've proposed, which has been called the toughest, most effective, comprehensive plan for reining in the other risks that the financial system could face.
It was an investment bank, Lehman Brothers, that contributed to our collapse.
It was a big insurance company, AIG.
It was Countrywide Mortgage.
My plan would sweep all of them into a regulatory framework so we can try to get ahead of what the next problems might be.
And I believe that not only Barney Frank, Paul Krugman, and others, have said that what I have proposed is the most effective.
It goes in the right direction.
We have Dodd-Frank.
We can use it to break up the banks, if that's appropriate.
But let's not kid ourselves.
As we speak, there are new problems on the horizon.
I want to get ahead of those, and that's why I've proposed a much more comprehensive approach to deal with all of these...
Let me, you know, again, respectfully disagree with Secretary Clinton here.
When you have three out of the four largest financial institutions in this country bigger today than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, when you have six financial institutions having assets equivalent to 58 percent of the GDP of America, while issuing two-thirds of the credit cards and a third of the mortgages, look, I think if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, that great trust-buster would have said break them up.
I think he would have been right.
I think he would have said bring back a 21st-century Glass-Steagall legislation.
I think that would have been right, as well.
That's my view.
Hey, I'm in the United States Senate, and anyone who doesn't think that there is an enormous amount of waste and inefficiency and bureaucracy throughout government would be very, very mistaken.
I believe in government, but I believe in efficient government, not wasteful government.
Absolutely.
And, you know, there are a number of programs that I think are duplicative and redundant and not producing the results that people deserve.
There are a lot of training programs and education programs that I think can be streamlined and put into a much better format so that if we do continue them they can be more useful, in public schools, community colleges, and colleges and universities.
I would like to take a hard look at every part of the federal government and really do the kind of analysis that would rebuild some confidence in people that we're taking a hard look about what we have, you know, and what we don't need anymore.
And that's what I intend to do.
If I could just answer that, we have also got to take a look at the waste and inefficiencies in the Department of Defense, which is the one major agency of government that has not been able to be audited.
And I have the feeling you're going to find a lot of cost overruns there and a lot of waste and duplicative activities.
Look, I think we are readier than we used to be, but it's a constant effort that has to be undertaken to make sure we are as ready as we need to be.
We have made a lot of improvements in our domestic security since 9/11, and we have been able to foil and prevent attacks, yet we see the terrible attack in San Bernardino and know that we haven't done enough.
So we have to go after this both abroad and at home.
We have to go after terrorist networks, predominantly ISIS -- that's not the only one, but let's focus on that for a minute.
We have to lead a coalition that will take back territory from ISIS.
That is principally an American-led air campaign that we are now engaged in.
We have to support the fighters on the ground, principally the Arabs and the Kurds who are willing to stand up and take territory back from Raqqa to Ramadi.
We have to continue to work with the Iraqi army so that they are better prepared to advance on some of the other strongholds inside Iraq, like Mosul, when they are able to do so.
And we have to cut off the flow of foreign funding and foreign fighters.
And we have to take on ISIS online.
They are a sophisticated purveyor of propaganda, a celebrator of violence, an instigator of attacks using their online presence.
Here at home, we've got to do a better job coordinating between federal, state, and local law enforcement.
We need the best possible intelligence not only from our own sources, but from sources overseas, that can be a real-time fusion effort to get information where it's needed.
But the final thing I want to say about this is the following.
You know, after 9/11, one of the efforts that we did in New York was if you see something or hear something suspicious, report it.
And we need to do that throughout the country.
But we need to understand that American Muslims are on the front line of our defense.
They are more likely to know what's happening in their families and their communities, and they need to feel not just invited, but welcomed within the American society.
So when somebody like Donald Trump and others...
... stirs up the demagoguery against American Muslims, that hurts us at home.
It's not only offensive; it's dangerous.
And the same goes for overseas, where we have to put together a coalition of Muslim nations.
I know how to do that.
I put together the coalition that imposed the sanctions on Iran that got us to the negotiating table to put a lid on their nuclear weapons program.
And you don't go tell Muslim nations you want them to be part of a coalition when you have a leading candidate for president of the United States who insults their religion.
So this has to be looked at overall, and we have to go at it from every possible angle.
Let me just say this.
What a president of the United States has got to do -- and what is his or her major, I think, responsibility -- is to, A, make certain that we keep our people safe, that we work with allies around the world to protect...
... president of the United States has got to do, and what is his or her major, I think, responsibility, is to, A, make certain that we keep our people safe.
That we work with allies around the world to protect democratic values.
That we do all that we can to create a world of peace and prosperity.
I voted against the war in Iraq because I listened very carefully to what President Bush and Vice President Cheney had to say and I didn't believe them.
And if you go to my Web site, berniesanders.com, what you find is not only going to help lead the opposition to that war, but much of what I feared would happen when I spoke on the floor of the House, in fact, did happen in terms of the instability that occurred.
Now I think an area in kind of a vague way, or not so vague, where Secretary Clinton and I disagree is the area of regime change.
Look, the truth is that a powerful nation like the United States, certainly working with our allies, we can overthrow dictators all over the world.
And God only knows Saddam Hussein was a brutal dictator.
We could overthrow Assad tomorrow if we wanted to.
We got rid of Gadhafi.
But the point about foreign policy is not just to know that you can overthrow a terrible dictator, it's to understand what happens the day after.
But what happened is a political vacuum developed.
ISIS came in, and now occupies significant territory in Libya, and is now prepared, unless we stop them, to have a terrorist foothold.
But this is nothing new.
This has gone on 50 or 60 years where the United States has been involved in overthrowing governments.
He was overthrown by British and American interests because he threatened oil interests of the British.
And as a result of that, the shah of Iran came in, terrible dictator.
The result of that, you had the Iranian Revolution coming in, and that is where we are today.
Unintended consequences.
So I believe as president I will look very carefully about unintended consequences.
I will do everything I can to make certain that the United States and our brave men and women in the military do not get bogged down in perpetual warfare in the Middle East.
If I could just respond.
Two points.
I do not believe a vote in 2002 is a plan to defeat ISIS in 2016.
It's very important we focus on the threats we face today, and that we understand the complicated and dangerous world we are in.
When people go to vote in primaries or caucuses, they are voting not only for the president, they are voting for the commander-in- chief.
And it's important that people really look hard at what the threats and dangers we face are, and who is best prepared for dealing with them.
As we all remember, Senator Obama, when he ran against me, was against the war in Iraq.
And yet when he won, he turned to me, trusting my judgment, my experience, to become secretary of state.
I was very honored to be asked to do that and very honored to serve with him those first four years.
Judy, if I can, there is no question, Secretary Clinton and I are friends, and I have a lot of respect for her, that she has enormous experience in foreign affairs.
Secretary of state for four years.
You've got a bit of experience, I would imagine.
But judgment matters as well.
Judgment matters as well.
And she and I looked at the same evidence coming from the Bush administration regarding Iraq.
I lead the opposition against it.
She voted for it.
That is very different than talking about specific action for regime change, which I did not support.
You did support a U.N. Security Council approach, which we did follow up on.
And, look, I think it's important to look at what the most important counterterrorism judgment of the first four years of the Obama administration was, and that was the very difficult decision as to whether or not to advise the president to go after bin Laden.
I looked at the evidence.
I looked at the intelligence.
I got the briefings.
I recommended that the president go forward.
It was a hard choice.
Not all of his top national security advisors agreed with that.
And at the end of the day, it was the president's decision.
So he had to leave the Situation Room after hearing from the small group advising him and he had to make that decision.
I'm proud that I gave him that advice.
And I'm very grateful to the brave Navy SEALs who carried out that mission.
Judy, one area very briefly...
Where the secretary and I have a very profound difference, in the last debate -- and I believe in her book -- very good book, by the way -- in her book and in this last debate, she talked about getting the approval or the support or the mentoring of Henry Kissinger.
Now, I find it rather amazing, because I happen to believe that Henry Kissinger was one of the most destructive secretaries of state in the modern history of this country.
I am proud to say that Henry Kissinger is not my friend.
I will not take advice from Henry Kissinger.
And in fact, Kissinger's actions in Cambodia, when the United States bombed that country, overthrew Prince Sihanouk, created the instability for Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge to come in, who then butchered some 3 million innocent people, one of the worst genocides in the history of the world.
So count me in as somebody who will not be listening to Henry Kissinger.
Well, it ain't Henry Kissinger.
That's for sure.
That's fine.
That's fine.
You know, I listen to a wide variety of voices that have expertise in various areas.
I think it is fair to say, whatever the complaints that you want to make about him are, that with respect to China, one of the most challenging relationships we have, his opening up China and his ongoing relationships with the leaders of China is an incredibly useful relationship for the United States of America.
So if we want to pick and choose -- and I certainly do -- people I listen to, people I don't listen to, people I listen to for certain areas, then I think we have to be fair and look at the entire world, because it's a big, complicated world out there.
It is.
And, yes, people we may disagree with on a number of things may have some insight, may have some relationships that are important for the president to understand in order to best protect the United States.
I find -- I mean, it's just a very different, you know, historical perspective here.
Kissinger was one of those people during the Vietnam era who talked about the domino theory.
Not everybody remembers that.
You do.
I do.
The domino theory, you know, if Vietnam goes, China, da, da, da, da, da, da, da.
That's what he talked about, the great threat of China.
And then, after the war, this is the guy who, in fact, yes, you're right, he opened up relations with China, and now pushed various type of trade agreements, resulting in American workers losing their jobs as corporations moved to China.
The terrible, authoritarian, Communist dictatorship he warned us about, now he's urging companies to shut down and move to China.
Not my kind of guy.
Well, this is what I would say.
It is a complicated relationship.
I congratulate Secretary of State John Kerry and the president for working on this agreement.
As you've indicated, what is happening in Syria, the number of people, the hundreds of thousands of people who have been killed -- men, women, 20,000 children, the people who are forced to flee their own country -- their own country -- it is unspeakable.
It is a real horror.
Now, what I think is that right now we have got to do our best in developing positive relations with Russia.
But let's be clear: Russia's aggressive actions in the Crimea and in Ukraine have brought about a situation where President Obama and NATO -- correctly, I believe -- are saying, you know what, we're going to have to beef up our troop level in that part of the world to tell Putin that his aggressiveness is not going to go unmatched, that he is not going to get away with aggressive action.
I happen to believe that Putin is doing what he is doing because his economy is increasingly in shambles and he's trying to rally his people in support of him.
But bottom line is: The president is right.
We have to put more money.
We have to work with NATO to protect Eastern Europe against any kind of Russian aggression.
Well, with respect to Syria, I really do appreciate the efforts that Secretary Kerry has made.
The agreement on humanitarian relief now needs to be implemented, because there are enclaves that are literally filled with starving people throughout Syria.
The agreement on a cease-fire, though, is something that has to be implemented more quickly than the schedule that the Russians agreed to.
You know, the Russians wanted to buy time.
Are they buying time to continue their bombardment on behalf of the Assad regime to further decimate what's left of the opposition, which would be a grave disservice to any kind of eventual cease-fire?
So I know Secretary Kerry is working extremely hard to try to move that cease-fire up as quickly as possible.
But I would add this.
You know, the Security Council finally got around to adopting a resolution.
At the core of that resolution is an agreement I negotiated in June of 2012 in Geneva, which set forth a cease-fire and moving toward a political resolution, trying to bring the parties at stake in Syria together.
This is incredibly complicated, because we've got Iran as a big player, in addition to Russia.
We have Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and others who have very important interests in their view.
This is one of the areas I've disagreed with Senator Sanders on, who has called for Iranian troops trying to end civil war in Syria, which I think would be a grave mistake.
Putting Iranian troops right on the border of the Golan right next to Israel would be a nonstarter for me.
Trying to get Iran and Saudi Arabia to work together, as he has suggested in the past, is equally a nonstarter.
So let's support what Secretary Kerry and the president are doing, but let's hope that we can accelerate the cease-fire, because I fear that the Russians will continue their bombing, try to do everything they can to destroy what's left of the opposition.
And remember, the Russians have not gone after ISIS or any of the other terrorist groups.
So as we get a cease-fire and maybe some humanitarian corridors, that still leaves the terrorist groups on the doorstep of others in Syria, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, and the like.
So we've got some real work to do, and let's try to make sure we actually implement what has been agreed to with the Russians.
Let me just -- just say this.
For a start, the secretary and I disagree -- and I think the president does not agree with her -- in terms of the concept of a no-fly zone in Syria.
I think you do have a humanitarian tragedy there, as I mentioned a moment ago.
I applaud Secretary Kerry and the president for trying to put together this agreement.
Let's hope that it holds.
But furthermore, what we have got to do, I'm sorry, yes, I do believe that we have got to do everything that we can, and it will not happen tomorrow.
But I do hope that in years to come, just as occurred with Cuba, 10, 20 years ago, people would say, reach normalized relations with Cuba.
And by the way, I hope we can end the trade embargo with Cuba as well.
But the idea that we some day maybe have decent relations with Iran, maybe put pressure on them so they end their support for terrorism around the world, yes, that is something I want to achieve.
And I believe that the best way to do that is to be aggressive, to be principled, but to have the goal of trying to improve relations.
That's how you make peace in the world.
You sit down and you work with people, you make demands of people, in this case demanding Iran stop the support of international terrorism.
Well, I respectfully disagree.
I think we have achieved a great deal with the Iranian nuclear agreement to put a lid on the Iranian nuclear weapons program.
That has to be enforced absolutely with consequences for Iran at the slightest deviation from their requirements under the agreement.
I do not think we should promise or even look toward normalizing relations because we have a lot of other business to get done with Iran.
Yes, they have to stop being the main state sponsor of terrorism.
Yes, they have to stop trying to destabilize the Middle East, causing even more chaos.
Yes, they've got to get out of Syria.
They've got to quit sponsoring Hezbollah and Hamas.
They have got to quit trying to ship rockets into Gaza that can be used against Israel.
We have a lot of work to do with Iran before we ever say that they could move toward normalized relations with us.
We have a lot of work to do.
We have a lot of work to do.
But I recall when Secretary Clinton ran against then-Senator Obama, she was critical of him for suggesting that maybe you want to talk to Iran, that you want to talk to our enemies.
I have no illusion.
Of course you are right.
Iran is sponsoring terrorism in many parts of the world, destabilizing areas.
Everybody knows that.
But our goal is, in fact, to try over a period of time to, in fact, deal with our enemies, not just ignore that reality.
...
Senator Sanders, from a debate in 2008, quote what I said.
The question was, would you meet with an adversary without conditions?
I said no.
And in fact, in Obama administration, we did not meet with anybody without conditions.
That is the appropriate approach in order to get the results that you are seeking.
No, I think the idea was that president -- then-Senator Obama was wrong for suggesting that it is a good idea to talk to your opponents.
It's easier to talk to your friends.
It's harder to talk to your enemies.
I think we should do both.
Well, I was pleased that NATO announced just this week that they're going to start doing patrols in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean, to try to interdict the smugglers, to try to prevent the kind of tragedies that we have seen all too often, also to try to prevent more refugees from coming to the European Union.
And it's especially significant that they are working with both Turkey and Greece in order to do this.
With respect to the United States, I think our role in NATO, our support for the E.U., as well as our willingness to take refugees so long as they are thoroughly vetted and that we have confidence from intelligence and other sources that they can come to our country, we should be doing our part.
And we should back up the recent donors conference to make sure we have made our contribution to try to deal with the enormous cost that these refugees are posing to Turkey and to members of the E.U.
in particular.
This is a humanitarian catastrophe.
There is no other description of it.
So we do as the United States have to support our friends, our allies in Europe.
We have to stand with them.
We have to provide financial support to them.
We have to provide the NATO support to back up the mission that is going on.
And we have to take properly vetted refugees ourselves.
A couple of years ago, I had the opportunity to go on a congressional delegation.
And I went to one of these Turkish refugee camps right on the border of Syria.
And what a sad sight that was: Men, women, children forced out of their homes.
And Turkey, by the way, did a very decent thing, providing what was reasonable housing and conditions for those people.
It seems to me that given our history as a nation that has been a beacon of hope for the oppressed, for the downtrodden, that I very strongly disagree with those Republican candidates who say, you know what, we've got to turn our backs on women and children who left their home with nothing, nothing at all.
That is not what America is supposed to be about.
So I believe that working with Europe -- and, by the way, you know, we've got some very wealthy countries there in that part of the world.
You got Kuwait and you got Qatar and you got Saudi Arabia.
They have a responsibility, as well.
But I think this is a worldwide -- that the entire world needs to come together to deal with this horrific refugee crisis we're seeing from Syria and Afghanistan, as well.
You know, Franklin Delano Roosevelt took the oath of office in 1933 at a time when 25 percent of the American people were unemployed, country was in incredible despair.
And he stood before the American people and he said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself," a profound statement that gave the American people the courage to believe that, yes, we could get out of that terrible depression.
And then what he did is redefine the role of government.
You know, you had Herbert Hoover before that saying, no, we got to only worry about the deficit.
So what if mass unemployment exists?
So what if children are going hungry?
That's not the role of the government.
And when FDR said, "Yeah, it is," that we're going to use all of the resources that we have to create jobs, to build homes, to feed people, to protect the farmers, we are a nation which if we come together there is nothing that we could not accomplish.
And kind of -- that's what I see our campaign is about right now.
In this particular moment of serious crises, saying to the American people don't give up on the political process.
don't listen to the Trumps of the world and allowing them to divide us.
If we reengage and get involved, yeah, we can have health care for all people, we can make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
We do not have to have massive levels of income and wealth inequality.
In the same light, as the foreign leader, Winston Churchill's politics were not my politics.
He was kind of a conservative guy in many respects.
But nobody can deny that as a wartime leader, he rallied the British people when they stood virtually alone against the Nazi juggernaut and rallied them and eventually won an extraordinary victory.
Those are two leaders that I admire very much.
I certainly agree with FDR for all the reasons Senator Sanders said.
And I agree about the role that he played both in war and in peace on the economy and defeating fascism around the world.
I would choose Nelson Mandela for his generosity of heart, his understanding of the need for reconciliation.
And I just couldn't agree -- disagree more with those kinds of comments.
You know, from my perspective, maybe because I understand what President Obama inherited, not only the worst financial crisis but the antipathy of the Republicans in Congress, I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for being a president...
... who got us out of that...
... put us on firm ground, and has sent us into the future.
And it is a -- the kind of criticism that we've heard from Senator Sanders about our president I expect from Republicans.
I do not expect from someone running for the Democratic nomination to succeed President Obama.
That is...
Madam Secretary, that is a low blow.
I have worked with President Obama for the last seven years.
And the world's financial system is on the verge of collapse.
As a result of his efforts and the efforts of Joe Biden against unprecedented, I was there in the Senate, unprecedented Republican obstructionism, we have made enormous progress.
But you know what?
Last I heard we lived in a democratic society.
Last I heard, a United States senator had the right to disagree with the president, including a president who has done such an extraordinary job.
So I have voiced criticisms.
You're right.
Maybe you haven't.
I have.
But I think to suggest that I have voiced criticism, this blurb that you talk about, you know what the blurb said?
That's what I said.
That is what I believe.
President Obama and I are friends.
As you know, he came to Vermont to campaign for me when he was a senator.
I have worked for his re-election.
His first election and his re-election.
But I think it is really unfair to suggest that I have not been supportive of the president.
I have been a strong ally with him on virtually every issue.
Do senators have the right to disagree with the president?
Have you ever disagreed with a president?
I suspect you may have.
As a senator, yes, I was a senator.
I understand we can disagree on the path forward.
But those kinds of personal assessments and charges are ones that I find particularly troubling.
Well, one of us ran against Barack Obama.
I was not that candidate.
All right, look, this has been a great debate.
A lot of interesting issues have come together.
Let me conclude by just saying this.
There is no president, in my view, not Hillary Clinton, not Bernie Sanders, who has the capability or the power to take on Wall Street, large campaign donors, the corporate media, the big money interests in this country alone.
This campaign is not just about electing a president.
What this campaign is about is creating a process for a political revolution in which millions of Americans, working people who have given up on the political process, they don't think anybody hears their pains or their concerns.
Young people for whom getting involved in politics is as, you know, it's like going to the moon.
It ain't going to happen.
Low income people who are not involved in the political process.
What this campaign is not only about electing someone who has the most progressive agenda, it is about bringing tens of millions of people together to demand that we have a government that represents all of us and not just the 1 percent, who today have so much economic and political power.
Thank you all very much.
You know, we -- we agree that we've got to get unaccountable money out of politics.
We agree that Wall Street should never be allowed to wreck Main Street again.
But here's the point I want to make tonight.
I am not a single- issue candidate, and I do not believe we live in a single-issue country.
I think that a lot of what we have to overcome to break down the barriers that are holding people back, whether it's poison in the water of the children of Flint, or whether it's the poor miners who are being left out and left behind in coal country, or whether it is any other American today who feels somehow put down and oppressed by racism, by sexism, by discrimination against the LGBT community, against the kind of efforts that need to be made to root out all of these barriers, that's what I want to take on.
And here in Wisconsin, I want to reiterate: We've got to stand up for unions and working people who have done it before...
... the American middle class, and who are being attacked by ideologues, by demagogues.
Yes, does Wall Street and big financial interests, along with drug companies, insurance companies, big oil, all of it, have too much influence?
You're right.
But if we were to stop that tomorrow, we would still have the indifference, the negligence that we saw in Flint.
We would still have racism holding people back.
We would still have sexism preventing women from getting equal pay.
We would still have LGBT people who get married on Saturday and get fired on Monday.
And we would still have governors like Scott Walker and others trying to rip out the heart of the middle class by making it impossible to organize and stand up for better wages and working conditions.
So I'm going to keep talking about tearing down all the barriers that stand in the way of Americans fulfilling their potential, because I don't think our country can live up to its potential unless we give a chance to every single American to live up to theirs.
Well, Maria, thank you for that question, and let me say thank you to the state of South Carolina for welcoming us.
Let me start -- I want to get to the substance of the question on jobs, but I want to start with something.
Today, many of us picked up our newspapers, and we were horrified to see the sight of 10 American sailors on their knees, with their hands on their heads.
In that State of the Union, President Obama didn't so much as mention the 10 sailors that had been captured by Iran.
President Obama's preparing to send $100 billion or more to the Ayatollah Khamenei.
And I'll tell you, it was heartbreaking.
But the good news is the next commander-in-chief is standing on this stage.
And I give you my word, if I am elected president, no service man or service woman will be forced to be on their knees, and any nation that captures our fighting men will feel the full force and fury of the United States of America.
Now, on to your substantive question.
The president tried to paint a rosy picture of jobs.
And you know, he's right.
If you're a Washington lobbyist, if you make your money in and around Washington, things are doing great.
The millionaires and billionaires are doing great under Obama.
And the Obama-Clinton economy has left behind the working men and women of this country.
The reason all of us are here is we believe we should be fighting for the working men and women of this country, and not Washington, D.C.
Look, it takes three things basically to grow jobs.
And our economy was growing like crazy.
It's the same thing that I did in Ohio.
It's a simple formula: common sense regulations, which is why I think we should freeze all federal regulations for one year, except for health and safety.
It requires tax cuts, because that sends a message to the job creators that things are headed the right way.
But in addition to that, we have to have fiscal discipline.
We have to show that we can march to a balanced budget.
And when you do that, when you're in a position of managing regulations; when you reduce taxes; and when you have fiscal discipline, you see the job creators begin to get very comfortable with the fact that they can invest.
Right now, you don't have the -- you have taxes that are too high.
You have regulations -- I mean, come on, they're affecting everybody here, particularly our small businesses.
They are -- they're in a position where they're smothering people.
And I mean, are you kidding me?
We're nowhere close to a balanced budget or fiscal discipline.
Those three things put together are going to give confidence to job creators and you will begin to see wages rise.
You will begin to see jobs created in a robust economy.
And how do I know it?
Because I've done it.
I did it as the chairman of the Budget Committee, working with Senator Domenici.
And I've done it in the state of Ohio as the chief executive.
Our wages are growing faster than the national average.
We're running surpluses.
And we can take that message and that formula to Washington to lift every single American to a better life.
Well, Maria, I'm glad to have heard from you in the summary of that question about what's going on in the world.
Because Tuesday night, I watched story time with Barack Obama.
And I've got to tell you, it sounded like everything in the world was going amazing, you know?
The fact is, there's a number of things that the next president is going to have to do to clean up this mess.
The first thing is we have to strengthen our alliances around the world.
And the best way to do that is to start talking to our allies again and having them be able to count on our word.
Lots of people will say lots of different things about me in this campaign and others, but the one thing they've never said about me is that I'm misunderstood.
And so when we talk to our allies and we give them our word, in a Christie administration, they know we're going to keep it.
Next, we have to talk to our adversaries, and we have to make sure they understand the limits of our patience.
And this president, given what Ted said right at the beginning, he's absolutely right.
It's a -- it's absolutely disgraceful that Secretary Kerry and others said in their response to what's going on in Iran that this was a good thing; it showed how the relationship was getting better.
The president doesn't understand -- and by the way, neither does Secretary Clinton -- and here's my warning to everybody out in the audience tonight.
If you're worried about the world being on fire, you're worried about how we're going to use our military, you're worried about strengthening our military and you're worried most of all about keeping your homes and your families safe and secure, you cannot give Hillary Clinton a third term of Barack Obama's leadership.
I will not do that.
If I'm the nominee, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House.
Military action, Maria, would be used when it was absolutely necessary to protect American lives and protect American interests around the world.
We are not the world's policeman, but we need to stand up and be ready.
And the problem, Maria, is that the military is not ready, either.
We need to rebuild our military, and this president has let it diminish to a point where tinpot dictators like the mullahs in Iran are taking our Navy ships.
It is disgraceful, and in a Christie administration, they would know much, much better than to do that.
Well first of all, the idea that somehow we're better off today than the day that Barack Obama was inaugurated president of the United States is totally an alternative universe.
The simple fact is that the world has been torn asunder.
Think about it.
With grandiose language, the president talks about red lines and nothing to follow it up; talks about ISIS being the JV team, they form a caliphate the size of Indiana with 35 (thousand) to 40,000 battle-tested terrorists.
He's missing the whole point, that America's leadership in the world is required for peace and stability.
In the crowd today is Major General James Livingston, who's the co-chairman of my campaign here in South Carolina, a Medal of Honor recipient.
I've learned from him that what we need to achieve is peace through strength, which means we need to rebuild the military.
In this administration, every weapon system has been gutted, in this administration, the force levels are going down to a level where we can't even project force.
Our friends no longer think we have their back and our enemies no longer fear us, and we're in a much difficult -- we're in a much different position than we should be.
And for the life of me, I have no understanding why the president thinks that everything is going well.
Terrorism is on the run, China, Russia is advancing their agenda at warp speed, and we pull back.
As president of the United States, I will be a commander in chief that will have the back of the military.
We will rebuild the military to make sure that it is a solid force, not to be the world's policeman, but to make sure that in a peaceful world, people know that the United States is there to take care of our own national interests and take care of our allies.
No.
And worse -- worse yet, to be honest with you, Hillary Clinton would be a national security disaster.
Think about it.
She wants to continue down the path of Iran, Benghazi, the Russian reset, Dodd-Frank, all the things that have -- that have gone wrong in this country, she would be a national security mess.
And that is wrong.
And you know what?
Here's the problem.
If she gets elected, she's under investigation with the FBI right now.
If she gets elected, her first 100 days, instead of setting an agenda, she might be going back and forth between the White House and the courthouse.
We need to stop that.
(LAUGHTER)
Yeah, I would go, first of all, one step further in this description of Hillary Clinton.
She wouldn't just be a disaster, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being commander in chief of the United States.
Ever.
On the issue of Barack Obama, Barack Obama does not believe that America is a great global power.
Barack Obama believes that America is a arrogant global power that needs to be cut down to size.
And that's how you get a foreign policy where we cut deals with our enemies like Iran and we betray our allies like Israel and we gut our military and we go around the world like he has done on 10 separate occasions and apologized for America.
He doesn't understand the threat in ISIS.
He consistently underestimates it but I do not.
There is a war against ISIS, not just against ISIS but against radical jihadists terrorists, and it is a war that they win or we win.
When I'm president of the United States, we are going to win this war on ISIS.
The most powerful intelligence agency in the world is going to tell us where we are, the most powerful military in the world is going to destroy them.
And if we capture any of them alive, they are getting a one-way ticket to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we are going to find out everything they know.
Well, I'm very happy to get a question this early on.
I was going to ask you to wake me up when that time came.
You know, I find it really quite fascinating some of the president's proclamations.
The fact of the matter is he doesn't realize that we now live in the 21st century, and that war is very different than it used to be before.
Not armies massively marching on each other and air forces, but now we have dirty bombs and we have cyber attacks and we have people who will be attacking our electrical grid.
And, you know, we have a whole variety of things that they can do and they can do these things simultaneously.
And we have enemies who are obtaining nuclear weapons that they can explode in our exoatmosphere and destroy our electric grid.
I mean, just think about a scenario like that.
They explode the bomb, we have an electromagnetic pulse.
They hit us with a cyberattack simultaneously and dirty bombs.
Can you imagine the chaos that would ensue at that point?
He needs to recognize that those kinds of things are in fact an existential threat to us.
But here's the real key.
And the fact of the matter is if we give them a mission and we don't tie their hands behind their back, they can get it accomplished.
It's not fear and terror, it's reality.
You just have to look today at Indonesia, bombings all over.
You look at California, you look, frankly, at Paris where there's a -- the strictest no-gun policy of any city anywhere in the world, and you see what happens: 130 people dead with many to follow.
They're very, very badly wounded.
They will -- some will follow.
And you look around, and you see what's happening, and this is not the case when he introduced the doctor -- very nice, everything perfect but that is not representative of what you have in that line of migration.
That could be the great Trojan Horse.
It could be people that are going to do great, great destruction.
You look at the kind of damage that two people that two people that got married, they were radicalized -- they got married, they killed 15 people in actually 15 -- going to be probably 16 but you look at that and you take a look -- a good strong look and that's what we have.
We are nineteen trillion dollars -- our country's a mess and we can't let all these people come into our country and break our borders.
We can't do it.
Well Maria, thank you for passing on that hit piece in the front page of the New York Times.
You know the nice thing about the mainstream media, they don't hide their views.
The New York Times a few weeks back had a columnist who wrote a column saying, "Anybody But Cruz."
Had that actually -- that same columnist wrote a column comparing me to an evil demonic spirit from the move, "It Follows" that jumps apparently from body to body possessing people.
So you know the New York Times and I don't have exactly have the warmest of relationships.
Now in terms of their really stunning hit piece, what they mentioned is when I was running for senate -- unlike Hillary Clinton, I don't have masses of money in the bank, hundreds of millions of dollars.
When I was running for senate just about every lobbyist, just about all of the establishment opposed me in the senate race in Texas and my opponent in that race was worth over 200 million dollars.
We took a loan against our assets to invest it in that campaign to defend ourselves against those attacks.
And the entire New York times attack -- is that I disclosed that loan on one filing with the United States Senate, that was a public filing.
But it was not on a second filing with FDIC and yes, I made a paperwork error disclosing it on one piece of paper instead of the other.
But if that's the best the New York Times has got, they better go back to the well.
Well, Neil, I'm glad we're focusing on the important topics of the evening.
You know, back in September, my friend Donald said that he had had his lawyers look at this from every which way, and there was no issue there.
There was nothing to this birther issue.
Now, since September, the Constitution hasn't changed.
But the poll numbers have.
And I recognize -- I recognize that Donald is dismayed that his poll numbers are falling in Iowa.
But the facts and the law here are really quite clear.
If a soldier has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen.
That's why John McCain, even though he was born in Panama, was eligible to run for president.
If an American missionary has a child abroad, that child is a natural-born citizen.
That's why George Romney, Mitt's dad, was eligible to run for president, even though he was born in Mexico.
At the end of the day, the legal issue is quite straightforward, but I would note that the birther theories that Donald has been relying on -- some of the more extreme ones insist that you must not only be born on U.S. soil, but have two parents born on U.S. soil.
Under that theory, not only would I be disqualified, Marco Rubio would be disqualified, Bobby Jindal would be disqualified and, interestingly enough, Donald J. Trump would be disqualified.
Because -- because Donald's mother was born in Scotland.
She was naturalized.
Now, Donald...
But I was born here.
... on the issue -- on the issue of citizenship, Donald...
(inaudible).
Big difference.
... on the issue of citizenship, Donald, I'm not going to use your mother's birth against you.
OK, good.
Because it wouldn't work.
You're an American, as is everybody else on this stage, and I would suggest we focus on who's best prepared to be commander- in-chief, because that's the most important question facing the country.
... first of all, let me just tell you something -- and you know, because you just saw the numbers yourself -- NBC Wall Street Journal just came out with a poll -- headline: Trump way up, Cruz going down.
I mean, so don't -- so you can't -- you can't...
... they don't like the Wall Street Journal.
They don't like NBC, but I like the poll.
And frankly, it just came out, and in Iowa now, as you know, Ted, in the last three polls, I'm beating you.
So -- you know, you shouldn't misrepresent how well you're doing with the polls.
You don't have to say that.
In fact, I was all for you until you started doing that, because that's a misrepresentation, number one.
Number two, this isn't me saying it.
I don't care.
I think I'm going to win fair and square (inaudible) to win this way.
Thank you.
Lawrence Tribe and (inaudible) from Harvard -- of Harvard, said that there is a serious question as to whether or not Ted can do this.
OK?
There are other attorneys that feel, and very, very fine constitutional attorneys, that feel that because he was not born on the land, he cannot run for office.
Here's the problem.
We're running.
We're running.
He does great.
I win.
I choose him as my vice presidential candidate, and the Democrats sue because we can't take him along for the ride.
I don't like that.
OK?
The fact is -- and if for some reason he beats the rest of the field, he beats the rest of the field (inaudible).
See, they don't like that.
They don't like that.
No, they don't like he beats the rest of the field, because they want me.
But -- if for some reason, Neil, he beats the rest of the field, I already know the Democrats are going to be bringing a suit.
You have a big lawsuit over your head while you're running.
And if you become the nominee, who the hell knows if you can even serve in office?
So you should go out, get a declaratory judgment, let the courts decide.
And you shouldn't have mentioned the polls because I would have been much...
Because now he's going a little bit better.
No, I didn't care (inaudible).
It's true.
No, it's true.
Hey look, he never had a chance.
Now, he's doing better.
He's got probably a four or five percent chance.
Neil...
The fact is, there is a big overhang.
There's a big question mark on your head.
And you can't do that to the party.
You really can't.
You can't do that to the party.
You have to have certainty.
Even if it was a one percent chance, and it's far greater than one percent because (inaudible).
I mean, you have great constitutional lawyers that say you can't run.
If there was a -- and you know I'm not bringing a suit.
I promise.
But the Democrats are going to bring a lawsuit, and you have to have certainty.
You can't have a question.
I can agree with you or not, but you can't have a question over your head.
Well, listen, I've spent my entire life defending the Constitution before the U.S. Supreme Court.
And I'll tell you, I'm not going to be taking legal advice from Donald Trump.
You don't have to.
Take it from Lawrence Tribe.
Take it from your professors...
The chances of any litigation proceeding and succeeding on this are zero.
And Mr. Trump is very focused...
He's wrong.
He's wrong.
... on Larry Tribe.
Let me tell you who Larry Tribe is.
He's a left-wing judicial activist, Harvard Law professor who was Al Gore's lawyer in Bush versus Gore.
He's a major Hillary Clinton supporter.
And there's a reason why Hillary's supporters are echoing Donald's attacks on me, because Hillary...
He is not the only one.
... wants to face Donald Trump in the general election.
There are many lawyers.
And I'll tell you what, Donald, you -- you very kindly just a moment ago offered me the V.P.
slot.
(LAUGHTER) I'll tell you what.
If this all works out, I'm happy to consider naming you as V.P.
So if you happen to be right, you could get the top job at the end of the day.
No -- no...
...
I think if it doesn't...
I like that.
I like it.
I'd consider it.
But I think I'll go back to building buildings if it doesn't work out.
Actually, I'd love to get you to build a wall.
I have a feeling it's going to work out, actually.
Let me (inaudible).
I was invoked in that question, so let me just say -- in that answer -- let me say, the real question here, I hate to interrupt this episode of Court TV.
But the real -- but I think we have to get back to what this election has to be about.
OK?
Listen, we -- this is the greatest country in the history of mankind.
But in 2008, we elected a president that didn't want to fix America.
He wants to change America.
We elected a president that doesn't believe in the Constitution.
He undermines it.
We elected a president that is weakening America on the global stage.
We elected a president that doesn't believe in the free enterprise system.
This election has to be about reversing all of that damage.
That's why I'm running for office because when I become president of the United States, on my first day in office we are going to repeal every single one of his unconstitutional executive orders.
When I'm president of the United States we are getting rid of Obamacare and we are rebuilding our military.
And when I'm president, we're not just going to have a president that gives a State of the Union and says America is the greatest country in the world.
When I'm president, we're going to have a president that acts like it.
Okay.
First of all, Nikki this afternoon said I'm a friend of hers.
Actually a close friend.
And wherever you are sitting Nikki, I'm a friend.
We're friends.
That's good.
But she did say there was anger.
And I could say, oh, I'm not angry.
I'm very angry because our country is being run horribly and I will gladly accept the mantle of anger.
Our healthcare is a horror show.
Obamacare, we're going to repeal it and replace it.
We have no borders.
Our vets are being treated horribly.
Illegal immigration is beyond belief.
Our country is being run by incompetent people.
And yes, I am angry.
And I won't be angry when we fix it, but until we fix it, I'm very, very angry.
And I say that to Nikki.
So when Nikki said that, I wasn't offended.
She said the truth.
One of your colleagues interviewed me.
And said, well, she said you were angry and I said to myself, huh, she's right.
I'm not fighting that.
I didn't find it offensive at all.
I'm angry because our country is a mess.
You know, as I said already twice in this debate, we have a very serious problem in this country.
We have a president of the United States that is undermining this country's security and expanding the role of...
Well, I am going to answer your question, Neil.
He is -- this president is undermining the constitutional basis of this government.
He is undermining our standing in the world.
I like Chris Christie, but we can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports Common Core.
We can not afford to have a president of the United States that supports gun control.
This president, this president is more interested in funding -- less interested in funding the military, than he is in funding planned -- he's more interested in funding Planned Parenthood than he is in funding the military.
Chris Christie wrote a check to Planned Parenthood.
All I'm saying is our next president has to be someone that undoes the damage Barack Obama has done to this country.
It can not be someone that agrees with his agenda.
Because the damage he has done to America is extraordinary.
Let me tell you, if we don't get this election right, there may be no turning back for America.
We're on the verge of being the first generation of Americans that leave our children worse off than ourselves.
So I just truly, with all my heart belief, I like everybody on the stage.
No one is a socialist.
No one here is under FBI investigation.
So we have a good group of people.
Our next president...
Unfortunately, Governor Christie has endorsed many of the ideas that Barack Obama supports, whether it is Common Core or gun control or the appointment of Sonia Sotomayor or the donation he made to Planned Parenthood.
Our next president, and our Republican nominee can not be someone who supports those positions.
I stood on the stage and watched Marco in rather indignantly, look at Governor Bush and say, someone told you that because we're running for the same office, that criticizing me will get you to that office.
It appears that the same someone who has been whispering in old Marco's ear too.
So the indignation that you carry on, some of the stuff, you have to also own then.
So let's set the facts straight.
So listen, this is the difference between being a governor and a senator.
See when you're a senator, what you get to do is just talk and talk and talk.
And you talk so much that nobody can ever keep up with what you're saying is accurate or not.
When you're a governor, you're held accountable for everything you do.
And the people of New Jersey, I've seen it.
And the last piece is this.
I like Marco too, and two years ago, he called me a conservative reformer that New Jersey needed.
That was before he was running against me.
Now that he is, he's changed his tune.
I'm never going to change my tune.
I like Marco Rubio.
He's a good guy, a smart guy, and he would be a heck of a lot better president than Hillary Rodham Clinton would ever be.
Neil, my name was mentioned here.
Neil, my name was mentioned as well.
Here's the deal, Chris is totally right.
He's been a good governor, and he's a heck of a lot better than his predecessor that would have bankrupted New Jersey.
Everybody on this stage is better than Hillary Clinton.
And I think the focus ought to be on making sure that we leave this nomination process, as wild and woolly as it's going to be -- this is not being bad.
These attack ads are going to be part of life.
Everybody just needs to get used to it.
Everybody's record's going to be scrutinized, and at the end of the day we need to unite behind the winner so we can defeat Hillary Clinton, because she is a disaster.
Our country rise up again, but we need to have a compelling conservative agenda that we present to the American people in a way that doesn't disparage people, that unites us around our common purpose.
And so everybody needs to discount some of the things you're going to hear in these ads, and discount the -- the back-and-forth here, because every person here is better than Hillary Clinton.
Neil, I was mentioned too.
Yeah, he said everybody.
(LAUGHTER)
And -- and I just want to take this opportunity to say, you know, in the 2012 election, you know, we -- and when I say we, Republicans -- tore themselves apart.
You know, we have to stop this because, you know, if we manage to damage ourselves, and we lose the next election, and a progressive gets in there and they get two or three Supreme Court picks, this nation is over as we know it.
And we got to look at the big picture here.
Well, if that's the case, we're going to win every state, if Bernie Sanders is the nominee.
That's not even an issue.
But look...
... and I know Bernie, and I can promise you he's not going to be president of the United States.
So here's this -- the situation, I think, Maria.
And this is what we have to -- I -- I've got to tell you, when wages don't rise -- and they haven't for a lot of families for a number of years -- it's very, very difficult for them.
Part of the reason why it hasn't risen because sometimes we're not giving people the skills they need.
Sometimes it's because the Federal Reserve kept interest rates so low that the wealthy were able to invest in -- in strong assets like the stock market when everybody else was left behind.
People are upset about it.
Do we have answer for that?
We do.
There are ways to retrain the 50 and 51-year-olds, because they've got great value.
I'll tell you what else people are concerned about.
Their kids come out of college, they have high debt and they can't get a good job.
We got to do a lot about the high cost of high -- higher education, but we've got to make sure we're training people for jobs that exist, that are good jobs that can pay.
Let me tell you that, in this country -- in this country, people are concerned about their economic future.
They're very concerned about it.
And they wonder whether somebody is getting something to -- keeping them from getting it.
That's not the America that I've ever known.
My father used to say, "Johnny, we never -- we don't hate the rich.
We just want to be the rich."
And we just got to make sure that every American has the tools, in K-through-12 and in vocational education, in higher education.
And we got to fight like crazy so people can think the American dream still exists, because it does, with rising wages, with full employment and with everybody in America -- and I mean everybody in America -- having an opportunity to realize the American dream of having a better life than their mother and their father.
I'm president -- look, I've done it once.
I've done it once in Washington, with great jobs and lower taxes.
The economy was really booming.
And now in Ohio, with the same formula, wages higher than the -- than the national average.
A growth of 385,000 jobs.
It's not that hard.
Just know where you want to go, stick to your guts.
Get it done, because our -- our children and grandchildren are counting on us to get it done.
And, folks, we will.
You count on it.
But you know, here's the real issue, is this America anymore?
Do we still have standards?
Do we still have values and principles?
You know, you look at what's going on, you see all the divisiveness and the hatred that goes on in our society.
You know, we have a war on virtual everything -- race wars, gender wars, income wars, religious wars, age wars.
Every war you can imaging, we have people at each other's throat and our strength is actually in our unity.
You know, you go to the internet, you start reading an article and you go to the comments section -- you cannot go five comments down before people are calling each all manner of names.
Where did that spirit come from in America?
It did not come from our Judeo-Christian roots, I can tell you that.
And wherever it came from we need to start once again recognizing that there is such a thing as right and wrong.
And let's not let the secular progressives drive that out of us.
The majority of people in American actually have values and principles and they believe in the very things that made America great.
They've been beaten into submission.
It's time for us to stand up for what we believe in.
First of all, I'd like to recognize Governor Haley for her incredible leadership in the aftermath of the --
The Emanuel AME church killings.
And I also want to recognize the people in that church that showed the grace of God and the grace of forgiveness and the mercy that they showed.
I don't know if any of us could have done what they did, one after another, within 48 hours of that tragedy taking place.
Look, here's the deal, in this particular case, the FBI made a mistake.
The law itself requires a background check, but that didn't fulfill their part of the bargain within the time that they were supposed to do.
We don't need to add new rules, we need to make sure the FBI does its job.
Because that person should not have gotten a gun, should not -- would not have passed a background check.
The first impulse of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton is to take rights away from law- abiding citizens.
That's what they do, whether it's the San Bernardino attack or if it's these tragedies that take place, I think we need to focus on what the bigger issue is.
It isn't law-abiding gun owners.
You're going away for a long, long while.
And that's what we should focus on is the violence in our communities.
Target the efforts for people that are committing crimes with guns, and if you do that, and get it right, you're going to be much better off than creating a political argument where there's a big divide.
The other issue is mental health.
That's a serious issue that we could work on.
Republicans and Democrats alike believe this.
The president's first impulse is do this by executive order, power he doesn't have.
Why not go to Congress and in a bipartisan way, begin to deal with the process of mental health issues so that people that are spiraling out of control because of mental health challenges don't have access to guns.
No.
I am a 2nd amendment person.
If we had guns in California on the other side where the bullets went in the different direction, you wouldn't have 14 or 15 people dead right now.
If even in Paris, if they had guns on the other side, going in the opposite direction, you wouldn't have 130 people plus dead.
So the answer is no and what Jeb said is absolutely correct.
We have a huge mental health problem in this country.
We're closing hospitals, we're closing wards, we're closing so many because the states want to save money.
We have to get back into looking at what's causing it.
The guns don't pull the trigger.
It's the people that pull the trigger and we have to find out what is going on.
We have to protect our 2nd amendment and you cannot do this and certainly what Barack Obama was doing with the executive order.
He doesn't want to get people together, the old-fashioned way, where you get Congress.
You get the Congress, you get the Senate, you get together, you do legislation.
He just writes out an executive order.
Not supposed to happen that way.
You get the Congress.
You get the Senate.
You get together.
You do legislation.
He just writes out an order, executive order.
It's not supposed to happen that way.
That sounds like people are afraid the president's going to take their guns away.
Look, the Second Amendment is not an option.
It is not a suggestion.
It is a constitutional right of every American to be able to protect themselves and their families.
I am convinced that if this president could confiscate every gun in America, he would.
I am convinced that this president, if he could get rid of the Second Amendment, he would.
I am convinced because I see how he works with his attorney general, not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it.
I have seen him appoint people to our courts not to defend the Second Amendment, but to figure out ways to undermine it.
Here's my second problem.
None of these instances that the president points to as the reason why he's doing these things would have been preventive.
You know why?
Because criminals don't buy their guns from a gun show.
They don't buy their guns from a collector.
And they don't buy their guns from a gun store.
They get -- they steal them.
They get them on the black market.
And let me tell you, ISIS and terrorists do not get their guns from a gun show.
These...
... his answer -- you name it.
If there's an act of violence in America, his immediate answer before he even knows the facts is gun control.
Here's a fact.
We are in a war against ISIS.
They are trying to attack us here in America.
They attacked us in Philadelphia last week.
They attacked us in San Bernardino two weeks ago.
And the last line standing between them and our families might be us and a gun.
When I'm president of the United States, we are defending the Second Amendment, not undermining it the way Barack Obama does.
About every two weeks, he holds a press conference talking about how he can't wait to restrict people's access to guns.
He has never defended...
I'll give you a fact.
Well, let me tell you this.
Do you remember when he ran for president of the United States, and he was a candidate, and he went and said, "These Americans with traditional values, they are bitter people, and they cling to their guns and to their religion."
That tells you right away where he was headed on all of this.
This president every chance he has ever gotten has tried to undermine the Second Amendment.
He doesn't meet -- here's the difference.
When he meets with the attorney general in the White House, it's not "how can we protect the Second Amendment rights of Americans."
It's "give me options on how I can make it harder for law-abiding people to buy guns."
That will never happen when I am president of the United States.
No, absolutely not.
The president wants to do things without working with his Congress, without working with the legislature, and without getting the consent of the American people.
And the fact is that that's not a democracy.
That's a dictatorship.
And we need to very, very concerned about that.
See, here's the thing.
I don't think the founders put the Second Amendment as number two by accident.
I don't think they dropped all the amendments into a hat and picked them out of a hat.
I think they made the Second Amendment the second amendment because they thought it was just that important.
The fact is in New Jersey, what we have done is to make it easier now to get a conceal and carry permit.
We have made it easier to do that, not harder.
And the way we've done it properly through regulatory action, not buy signing unconstitutional executive orders.
This guy is a petulant child.
That's what he is.
I mean, you know...
... the fact is, Neil, let's think about -- let's think about -- and I want to maybe -- I hope the president is watching tonight, because here's what I'd like to tell him.
Mr. President, we're not against you.
We're against your policies.
When you became president, you had a Democratic Congress and a filibuster-proof Democratic Senate.
You had only 21 Republican governors in this country.
And now after seven years of your policies, we have the biggest majority we've had since the 1920s in the House; a Republican majority in the Senate; and 31 out of 50 Republican governors.
The American people have rejected your agenda and now you're trying to go around it.
That's not right.
It's not constitutional.
And we are going to kick your rear end out of the White House come this fall.
The answer is simple.
Your prosecute criminals.
You target the bad guys.
You know, a minute ago, Neil asked: What has President Obama do -- done to illustrate that he wants to go after guns?
Well, he appointed Eric Holder as attorney general.
Eric Holder said he viewed his mission as brainwashing the American people against guns.
He appointed Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court, someone who has been a radical against the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.
He launched Fast and Furious, illegally selling guns to Mexican drug lords that were then used to shoot law enforcement officials.
And I'll tell you what Hillary Clinton has said: Hillary Clinton says she agrees with the dissenters -- the Supreme Court dissenters in the Heller case.
There were four dissenters, and they said that they believe the Second Amendment protects no individual right to keep and bear arms whatsoever, which means, if their view prevailed and the next president's going to get one, two, three, maybe four Supreme Court justices, the court will rule that not a single person in this room has any right under the Second Amendment and the government could confiscate your guns.
And I'll note that California senator -- Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein said, if she could say to Mr. America and Mrs. America, "give me your guns, I'm rounding them up," she would.
And let me make a final point on this.
Listen, in any Republican primary, everyone is going to say they support the Second Amendment.
Unless you are clinically insane...
... that's what you say in a primary.
But the voters are savvier than that.
They recognize that people's actions don't always match their words.
I've got a proven record fighting to defend the Second Amendment.
There's a reason Gun Owners of America has endorsed me in this race.
There's a reason the NRA gave me their Carter Knight Freedom Fund award...
(BELL RINGS) ... and there's a reason, when Barack Obama and Chuck Schumer came after our right to keep and bear arms, that I led the opposition, along with millions of Americans -- we defeated that gun control legislation.
And I would note the other individuals on this stage were nowhere to be found in that fight.
You know, I think most people know exactly what New York values are.
What -- what -- you're from New York?
So you might not.
But I promise you, in the state of South Carolina, they do.
And listen, there are many, many wonderful, wonderful working men and women in the state of New York.
But everyone understands that the values in New York City are socially liberal or pro-abortion or pro- gay-marriage, focus around money and the media.
And -- and I would note indeed, the reason I said that is I was asked -- my friend Donald has taken to it as (ph) advance playing Bruce Springsteen's "Born in the USA", and I was asked what I thought of that.
And I said, "well, if he wanted to play a song, maybe he could play, 'New York, New York'?"
And -- and -- you know, the concept of New York values is not that complicated to figure out.
Not too many years ago, Donald did a long interview with Tim Russert.
And in that interview, he explained his views on a whole host of issues that were very, very different from the views he's describing now.
And his explanation -- he said, "look, I'm from New York, that's what we believe in New York.
Those aren't Iowa values, but this is what we believe in New York."
And so that was his explanation.
And -- and I guess I can -- can frame it another way.
I'm just saying.
So conservatives actually do come out of Manhattan, including William F. Buckley and others, just so you understand.
And just so -- if I could, because he insulted a lot of people.
I've had more calls on that statement that Ted made -- New York is a great place.
It's got great people, it's got loving people, wonderful people.
When the World Trade Center came down, I saw something that no place on Earth could have handled more beautifully, more humanely than New York.
You had two one hundred...
... you had two 110-story buildings come crashing down.
I saw them come down.
Thousands of people killed, and the cleanup started the next day, and it was the most horrific cleanup, probably in the history of doing this, and in construction.
I was down there, and I've never seen anything like it.
And the people in New York fought and fought and fought, and we saw more death, and even the smell of death -- nobody understood it.
And it was with us for months, the smell, the air.
And we rebuilt downtown Manhattan, and everybody in the world watched and everybody in the world loved New York and loved New Yorkers.
And I have to tell you, that was a very insulting statement that Ted made.
Well, first of all, under President Jeb Bush, we would restore the strength of the military.
Last week, Secretary Carter announced that the Navy's going to be cut again.
It's now half the size of what it was prior to Operation Desert Storm.
The deployments are too high for the military personnel.
We don't have procurement being done for refreshing the equipment.
The B-52 is still operational as the long range bomber; it was inaugurated in the age of Harry Truman.
The planes are older than the pilots.
We're gutting our military, and so the Iranians and the Chinese and the Russians and many other countries look at the United States not as serious as we once were.
We have to eliminate the sequester, rebuild our military in a way that makes it clear that we're back in the game.
Secondly, as it relates to Iran, we need to confront their ambitions across the board.
We should reimpose sanctions, they've already violated sanctions after this agreement was signed by testing medium-range missiles.
Thirdly, we need to move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to send a serious signal that we're back in the game with Israel --
... and sign an agreement that makes sure that the world knows that they will have technological superiority.
We need to get back in the game as it relates to our Arab nations.
The rest of the world is moving away from us towards other alliances because we are weak.
This president and John Kerry and Hillary Clinton all have made it harder for the next president to act, but he must act to confront the ambitions of Iran.
We can get back in the game to restore order and security for our own country.
Well, let me -- let me first of all talk a little bit about my experience.
I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years, and by the way, one of the members of that committee was Senator Strom Thurmond from South Carolina.
Let em also tell you...
... that after the 9/11 attacks, Secretary Rumsfeld invited me to the Pentagon with a meeting of the former secretaries of Defense.
And in that meeting, I suggested we had a problem with technology, and that I wanted to take people from Silicon Valley into the Pentagon to solve our most significant problems.
So I not only had the opportunity to go through the Cold War struggles in Central America, and even after 9/11 to be involved.
With Saudi Arabia and oil production, first of all, it's so critical for us to be energy independent, and we're getting there because of fracking and we ought to explore because, see, energy independence gives us leverage and flexibility, and secondly, if you want to bring jobs back to the United States of America in industry, low prices make the difference.
We're seeing it in my state and we'll see it in this country.
And that's why we must make sure we continue to frack.
In terms of Saudi Arabia, look, my biggest problem with them is they're funding radical clerics through their madrasses.
That is a bad deal and an evil situation, and presidents have looked the other way.
And I was going to tell you, whether I'm president or not, we better make it clear to the Saudis that we're going to support you, we're in relation with you just like we were in the first Gulf War, but you've got to knock off the funding and teaching of radical clerics who are the very people who try to destroy us and will turn around and destroy them.
So look, in foreign policy -- in foreign policy, it's strength, but you've got to be cool.
You've got to have a clear vision of where you want to go.
And I'm going to tell you, that it -- I'm going to suggest to you here tonight, that you can't do on the job training.
I've seen so much of it - a Soviet Union, the coming down of a wall, the issues that we saw around the world in Central America, the potential spread of communism, and 9/11 and Gulf War.
You see what the Saudi's -- deliver them a strong message but at the end of the day we have to keep our cool because most of the time they're going right with us.
And they must be part of our coalition to destroy ISIS and I believe we can get that done.
Thank you.
Wait a minute, who in their 16th month?
OK.
Well, there's no question that ISIS is a very serious problem, and I don't believe that this administration recognizes how serious it is.
I think we need to do a lot more than we're doing.
Recognize that the caliphate is what gives them the legitimacy to go out on a jihadist mission, so we need to take that away from them.
The way to take that away from them is to talk to our military officials and ask them, "what do you need in order to accomplish this goal?"
Our decision is, then, do we give them what we need.
I say, yes, not only do we give them what they need, but we don't tie their hands behind their backs so that they can go ahead and get the job done.
In addition to that...
... in addition to that, we go ahead and we take the oil from them, their source of revenue.
You know, some of these -- these engagement rules that the administration has -- "we're not going to bomb a tanker that's coming out of there because there might be a person in it" -- give me a break.
Just tell them that, you put people in there, we're going to bomb them.
So don't put people in there if you don't want them bombed.
You know, that's so simple.
And then we need to shut down -- we need to shut down their mechanisms of funding and attack their command-and-control centers.
Why should we let their people be sitting there smoking their cigars, sitting in their comfortable chairs in Raqqa?
We know (ph) to go ahead and shut off the supply routes, and send in our special ops at 2:00 a.m. and attack them everywhere they go.
They should be running all the time, then they won't have time to plan attacks against us.
Maria, you look at what this president and his secretary of state, Secretary of State Clinton, has done to get us in this spot.
You think about it -- this is the president who said, along with his secretary of state -- drew a red line in Syria, said, if Assad uses chemical weapons against his people, that we're going to attack.
He used chemical weapons, he's killed, now, over a quarter of a million of his own people, and this president has done nothing.
In fact, he's done worse than nothing.
This president -- and, by the way, Secretary Clinton, who called Assad a reformer -- she called Assad a reformer.
Now, the fact is, what this president has done is invited Russia to play an even bigger role, bring in Vladimir Putin to negotiate getting those chemical weapons back from Assad, yet what do we have today?
We have the Russians and the Iranians working together, not to fight ISIS, but to prop up Assad.
The fact of the matter is we're not going to have peace -- we are not going to have peace in Syria.
We're not going to be able to rebuild it unless we put a no-fly zone there, make it safe for those folks so we don't have to be talking about Syrian refugees anymore.
The Syrians should stay in Syria.
They shouldn't be going to Europe.
And here's the last piece...
... you're not going to have peace in Syria with Assad in charge.
You're simply not.
And so Senator Graham is right about this.
And if we want to try to rebuild the coalition, as Governor Kasich was saying before, then what we better do is to get to the Arab countries that believe that ISIS is a threat, not only to them, but to us and to world peace, and bring them together.
And believe me, Assad is not worth it.
And if you're going to leave this to Hillary Clinton, the person who gave us this foreign policy, the architect of it, and you're going to give her another four years, that's why I'm speaking out as strongly as I am about that.
Hillary Clinton cannot be president.
It will lead to even greater war in this world.
And remember this, after Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama have had nearly 8 years, we have fewer democracies in the world than we had when they started.
That makes the world less peaceful, less safe.
In my administration, we will help to make sure we bring people together in the Middle East, and we will fight ISIS and defeat them.
No.
No.
Look, we have to stop with political correctness.
We have to get down to creating a country that's not going to have the kind of problems that we've had with people flying planes into the World Trade Centers, with the -- with the shootings in California, with all the problems all over the world.
I just left Indonesia -- bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb.
We have to find out what's going on.
I said temporarily.
I didn't say permanently.
I said temporarily.
And I have many great Muslim friends.
And some of them, I will say, not all, have called me and said, "Donald, thank you very much; you're exposing an unbelievable problem and we have to get to the bottom of it."
And unlike President Obama, where he refuses even to use the term of what's going on, he can't use the term for whatever reason.
And if you can't use the term, you're never going to solve the problem.
My Muslim friends, some, said, "thank you very much; we'll get to the bottom of it."
But we have a serious problem.
And we can't be the stupid country any more.
We're laughed at all over the world.
Donald, Donald -- can I -- I hope you reconsider this, because this policy is a policy that makes it impossible to build the coalition necessary to take out ISIS.
The Kurds are our strongest allies.
They're Muslim.
You're not going to even allow them to come to our country?
The other Arab countries have a role to play in this.
We cannot be the world's policeman.
We can't do this unilaterally.
We have to do this in unison with the Arab world.
And sending that signal makes it impossible for us to be serious about taking out ISIS and restoring democracy in Syria.
So I hope you'll reconsider.
I hope you'll reconsider.
The better way of dealing with this -- the better way of dealing with this is recognizing that there are people in, you know, the -- Islamic terrorists inside, embedded in refugee populations.
What we ought to do is tighten up our efforts to deal with the entry visa program so that a citizen from Europe, it's harder if they've been traveling to Syria or traveling to these other places where there is Islamic terrorism, make it harder -- make the screening take place.
We don't have to have refugees come to our country, but all Muslims, seriously?
What kind of signal does that send to the rest of the world that the United States is a serious player in creating peace and security?
Yeah, they are unhinged.
Eleven points, to be exact.
No, not at all, absolutely not.
I can see why people are angry and scared, because this president has created a condition where our national security has weakened dramatically.
I totally get that.
But we're running for the presidency of the United States here.
This isn't -- this isn't, you know, a different kind of job.
You have to lead.
You cannot make rash statements and expect the rest of the world to respond as though, well, it's just politics.
Every time we send signals like this, we send a signal of weakness, not strength.
And so it was (inaudible) his statement, which is why I'm asking him to consider changing his views.
I want security for this country.
OK?
I want security.
I'm tired of seeing what's going on, between the border where the people flow over; people come in; they live; they shoot.
I want security for this country.
We have a serious problem with, as you know, with radical Islam.
We have a tremendous problem.
It's not only a problem here.
It's a problem all over the world.
I want to find out why those two young people -- those two horrible young people in California when they shot the 14 people, killed them -- people they knew, people that held the wedding reception for them.
I want to find out -- many people saw pipe bombs and all sorts of things all over their apartment.
Why weren't they vigilant?
Why didn't they call?
Why didn't they call the police?
And by the way, the police are the most mistreated people in this country.
I will tell you that.
The most mistreated people.
In fact, we need to -- wait a minute -- we need vigilance.
We have to find out -- many people knew about what was going on.
Why didn't they turn those two people in so that you wouldn't have had all the death?
There's something going on and it's bad.
And I'm saying we have to get to the bottom of it.
That's all I'm saying.
We need security.
I -- I've been for pausing on admitting the Syrian refugees.
And the reasons why I've done is I don't believe we have a good process of being able to vet them.
But you know, we don't want to put everybody in the same category.
And I'll go back to something that had been mentioned just a few minutes ago.
If we're going to have a coalition, we're going to have to have a coalition not just of people in the western part of the world, our European allies, but we need the Saudis, we need the Egyptians, we need the Jordanians, we need the Gulf states.
We need Jordan.
We need all of them to be part of exactly what the first George Bush put together in the first Gulf War.
It was a coalition made up of Arabs and Americans and westerners and we're going to need it again.
And if we try to put everybody in the same -- call everybody the same thing, we can't do it.
And that's just not acceptable.
But I think a pause on Syrian refugees has been exactly right for all the governors that have called for it, and also, of course, for me as the governor of Ohio.
Now Maria, listen.
I said right from the beginning that we should take no Syrian refugees of any kind.
That's the end of the conversation.
I can tell you, after spending seven years as a former federal prosecutor, right after 9/11, dealing with this issue.
Here's the way you need to deal with it.
You can't just ban all Muslims.
You have to ban radical Islamic jihadists.
You have to ban the people who are trying to hurt us.
The only way to figure that out is to go back to getting the intelligence community the funding and the tools that it needs to be able to keep America safe.
And this summer, we didn't do that.
We took it away from the NSA, it was a bad decision by the president.
Bad by those in the Senate who voted for it and if I'm president, we'll make our intelligence community strong, and won't have to keep everybody out, we're just going to keep the bad folk out and make sure they don't harm us.
Well, first of all, let's understand why we are even having this debate and why Donald tapped in to some of that anger that's out there about this whole issue.
Because this president has consistently underestimated the threat of ISIS.
If you listen to the State of the Union the other night, he described them as a bunch of guys with long beards on the back of a pickup truck.
They are much more than that.
This is a group of people that enslaves women and sells them, sells them as brides.
This is a group of people that burns people in cages, that is conducting genocide against Christians and Yazidis and others in the region.
This is not some small scale group.
They are radicalizing people in the United States, they are conducting attacks around the world.
So you know what needs to happen, it's a very simple equation, and it's going to happen when I'm president.
If we do not know who you are, and we do not know why you are coming when I am president, you are not getting into the United States of America.
You know I understand why Donald made the comments he did and I understand why Americans are feeling frustrated and scared and angry when we have a president who refuses to acknowledge the threat we face and even worse, who acts as an apologist for radical Islamic terrorism.
I think what we need is a commander in chief who is focused like a laser on keeping this country safe and on defeating radical Islamic terrorism.
What should we do?
First, we should pass the Expatriate Terrorist Act, legislation I've introduced that says if an American goes and joins ISIS and wages jihad against America, that you forfeit your citizenship and you can not come in on a passport.
And secondly, we should pass the legislation that I've introduced...
... that suspends all refugees from nations that ISIS or Al Qaida controls significant territory.
Just last week, we see saw two Iraqi refugees vetted using the same process the president says will work, that were arrested for being alleged ISIS terrorists.
If I'm elected president, we will not let in refugees from countries controlled by ISIS or Al Qaida.
When it comes to ISIS, we will not weaken them, we will not degrade them, we will utterly and completely destroy ISIS
Well, first of all, recognize it is a substantial problem.
But like all of our problems, there isn't a single one that can't be solved with common sense if you remove the ego and the politics.
And clearly, what we need to do is get a group of experts together, including people from other countries, some of our friends from Israel, who have had experience screening these people and come up with new guidelines for immigration, and for visas, for people who are coming into this country.
That is the thing that obviously makes sense, we can do that.
And as far as the Syrians are concerned, Al-Hasakah province, perfect place.
They have infrastructure.
All we need to do is protect them, they will be in their own country.
And that is what they told me when I was in Jordan in November.
Let's listen to them and let's not listen to our politicians.
So, are we going to ban Muslims from India, from Indonesia, from countries that are strong allies -- that we need to build better relationships with?
Of course not.
What we need to do is destroy ISIS.
I laid out a plan at the Citadel to do just that and it starts with creating a "No Fly Zone" and "Safe Zones" to make sure refugees are there.
We need to lead a force, a Sunni led force inside of Syria.
We need to embed with -- with the Iraqi military.
We need to arm the Kurds the directly.
We need to re-establish the relationships with the Sunnis.
We need the lawyers(ph) off the back of the war fighters.
That's how you solve the problem.
You don't solve it by big talk where you're banning all Muslims and making it harder for us to build the kind of coalition for us to be successful.
It's the New York Times, they are always wrong.
They were wrong.
No, I said, " I would use -- " they were asking me what to do about North Korea.
China, they don't like to tell us but they have total control -- just about, of North Korea.
They can solve the problem of North Korea if they wanted to but they taunt us.
They say, " well, we don't really have control."
Without China, North Korea doesn't even eat.
China is ripping us on trade.
They're devaluing their currency and they're killing our companies.
Thousands of thousands -- you look at the number of companies and the number in terms of manufacturing of plans that we've lost -- 50,000 because of China.
It's not that complicated actually.
OK, just so you understand -- I know so much about trading about with China.
Carl Icon today as you know endorsed.
Many businessmen want to endorse me.
Carl said, "no, no -- " but he's somebody -- these are the kind of people that we should use to negotiate and not the China people that we have who are political hacks who don't know what they're doing and we have problems like this.
If these are the kinds of people -- we should use our best and our finest.
Now, on that tariff -- here's what I'm saying, China -- they send their goods and we don't tax it -- they do whatever they want to do.
They do whatever what they do, OK.
When we do business with China, they tax us.
You don't know it, they tax us.
I have many friends that deal with China.
They can't -- when they order the product and when they finally get the product it is taxed.
If you looking at what happened with Boeing and if you look at what happened with so many companies that deal -- so we don't have an equal playing field.
I'm saying, absolutely, we don't have to continue to lose 505 billion dollars as a trade deficit for the privilege of dealing with China.
I'm a free trader.
I believe in it but we have to be smart and we have to use smart people to negotiate.
I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant of mine.
I sell tens' of millions of (inaudible).
I love China.
I love the Chinese people but they laugh themselves, they can't believe how stupid the American leadership is.
I'm totally open to a tariff.
If they don't treat us fairly, hey, their whole trade is tariffed.
You can't deal in China without tariffs.
They do it to us, we don't it.
It's not fair trade.
Neil, Neil -- can I say one thing about this.
I'm a free trader.
I support NAFTA.
I believe in the PTT because it's important those countries in Asia are interfacing against China.
And we do need China -- Donald's right about North Korea.
I mean the fact is, is that they need to put the pressure on and frankly we need to intercepts ships coming out of North Korea so they don't proliferate all these dangerous materials.
But what he's touching -- talking about, I think has got merit.
And I'll allow putting that tariff or whatever he's saying here...
I'm happy to have him tonight...
For too long -- no, for too long, what happens is somebody dumps their product in our country and take our people's jobs, and then we go to an international court and it takes them like a year or two to figure out whether they were cheating us.
And guess what?
The worker's out of a job.
So when they -- be found against that country that's selling products in here lower than the cost of what it takes to produce them, then what do we tell the worker?
Oh, well, you know, it just didn't work out for you.
I think we should be for free trade but I think fair trade.
And when countries violate trade agreements or dump product in this country, we need -- we need to stand up against those countries that do that without making them into an enemy.
And I want to just suggest to you.
How do I know this?
Because so many people in my family worked in steel mills, and they didn't work with a white collar, they worked in a blue collar.
And the fact is those jobs are critical, they're hard working members of the middle class and they need to be paid attention to because they're Americans and they carry the load.
So let's demand open trade but fair trade in this country.
That's what I think we need to do.
But on this point, if I may add something on this point.
We are all frustrated with what China is doing.
I think we need to be very careful with tariffs, and here's why.
China doesn't pay the tariff, the buyer pays the tariff.
If you send a tie or a shirt made in China into the United States and an American goes to buy it at the store and there's a tariff on it, it gets passed on in the price to price to the consumer.
So I think the better approach, the best thing we can do to protect ourselves against China economically is to make our economy stronger, which means reversing course from all the damage Barack Obama is doing to this economy.
It begins with tax reform.
Let's allow companies to immediately expense.
It continues with regulatory reform.
Regulations in this country are out of control, especially the Employment Prevention Agency, the EPA, and all of the rules they continue to impose on our economy and hurting us.
How about Obamacare, a certified job killer?
It needs to be repealed and replaced.
And we need to bring our debt under control, make our economy stronger.
That is the way to deal with China at the end of the day.
Neil, the problem...
... with what Marco is saying is that it takes too long, they're sucking us dry and it takes too long.
It would just -- you absolutely have to get involved with China, they are taking so much of what we have in terms of jobs in terms of money.
We just can't do it any longer.
Absolutely.
You looking at me?
Yeah.
Can I tell you what?
It will never happen because they'll let their currency go up.
They're never going to let it happen.
Japan, the same thing.
They are devaluing -- it's so impossible for -- you look at Caterpillar Tractor and what's happening with Caterpillar and Kamatsu (ph).
Kamatsu (ph) is a tractor company in Japan.
Friends of mine are ordering Kamatsu (ph) tractors now because they've de-valued the yen to such an extent that you can't buy a Caterpillar tractor.
And we're letting them get away with it and we can't let them get away with it.
And that's why we have to use Carl (ph) and we have to use our great businesspeople and not political hacks to negotiate with these guys.
Here's -- apart from the -- apart from the higher prices on consumers and people are living paycheck to paycheck, apart from that, there will be retaliation.
So they soybean sales from Iowa, entire soybean production goes -- the equivalent of it goes to China.
Or how about Boeing right here within a mile?
Do you think that the Chinese, if they had a 45 percent tariff imposed on all their imports wouldn't retaliate and start buying Airbus?
Of course, they would.
This would be devastating for the economy.
We need someone with a steady hand being president of the United States.
And we don't need a weak person being president of the United State, OK?
Because that's what we'd get if it were Jeb -- I tell you what, we don't need that.
We don't need that.
That's essentially what we have now, and we don't need that.
And that's why we're in the trouble that we're in now.
And by the way, Jeb you mentioned Boeing, take a look.
They order planes, they make Boeing build their plant in China.
They don't want them made here.
They want those planes made in China.
They're a mile away from here.
That's not the way the game is supposed to be played.
My name was mentioned.
My name was mentioned here.
The simple fact is that the plane that's being build here is being sold to China.
You can -- if you -- you flew in with your 767, didn't you?
Right there, right next to the plant.
No, the new planes.
I'm not talking about now, I'm talking about in the future they're building massive plants in China because China does not want Boeing building their planes here, they want them built in China, because China happens to be smart the way they do it, not the way we do it.
When you head back to airport tonight, go check and see what the...
I'll check for you.
Check it out.
Thanks for coming back to me, Maria.
Both Donald and Jeb have good points, and there is a middle ground.
Donald is right that China is running over President Obama like he is a child, President Obama is not protecting American workers and we are getting hammered.
You know, I sat down with the senior leadership of John Deere.
They discussed how -- how hard it is to sell tractors in China, because all the regulatory barriers.
They're protectionist.
But Jeb is also right that, if we just impose a tariff, they'll put reciprocal tariffs, which will hurt Iowa farmers and South Carolina producers and 20 percent of the American jobs that depend on exports.
So the way you do it is you pass a tax plan like the tax plan I've introduced: a simple flat tax, 10 percent for individuals, and a 16 percent business flat tax, you abolish the IRS...
... and here's the critical point, Maria -- the business flat tax enables us to abolish the corporate income tax, the death tax, the Obamacare taxes, the payroll taxes, and they're border-adjustable, so every export pays no taxes whatsoever.
It's tax-free -- a huge advantage for our farmers and ranchers and manufacturers -- and every import pays the 16 percent business flat tax.
It's like a tariff, but here's the difference: if we impose a tariff, China responds.
The business flat tax, they already impose their taxes on us, so there's no reciprocal...
... tariffs that come against us.
It puts us on a level, even playing field, which brings jobs here at home...
... and as president, I'm going to fight for the working men and women.
Well, I'm glad you asked that, Maria.
Here's -- here's our plan.
We've all been talking about tax reforms tonight, and paying for infrastructure is caught right up in tax reform.
And who can blame them?
They pay tax once overseas.
So beside reforming that tax code, bringing it down to 25 percent and eliminating those special-interest loopholes that the lobbyists and the lawyers and the accountants have given -- bring that rate down to 25 percent, but also, a one-time repatriation of that money.
Bring the money -- the $2 trillion -- back to the United States.
We'll tax it, that one time, at 8.75 percent, because 35 percent of zero is zero, but 8.75 percent of $2 trillion is a lot of money.
And I would then dedicate that money to rebuilding infrastructure here in this country.
It would not necessitate us raising any taxes.
It would bring the money back into the United States to help build jobs by American companies and get our economy moving again, and growing as a higher rate, and it would rebuild those roads and bridges and tunnels that you were talking about.
And -- and -- and the last piece of this, Maria, is this.
You know, the fact is that this president has penalized corporations in America.
He's penalized -- and doesn't understand.
In fact, what that hurts is hurt hardworking taxpayers.
You've seen middle-class wages go backwards $3,700 during the Obama administration.
That's wrong for hardworking taxpayers in this country.
We'd rebuild infrastructure that would also create jobs in this country, and we'd work with the states to do it the right way, to do it more efficiently and more effectively.
And remember this -- I'm credible on this for this reason: Americans for Tax Reform says that I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history.
We don't need to raise taxes to get this done.
We need to make the government run smarter and better, and reform this corporate tax system, bring that money back to the United States to build jobs and rebuild our infrastructure, and we need to use it also to protect our grid from terrorists.
All of those things are important, and all those things would happen in a Christie administration.
Well, I would suggest a fair tax system, and that's what we have proposed.
A flat tax for everybody -- no exemptions, no deductions, no shelters, because some people have a better capability of taking advantage of those than others.
You know, and then the other thing we have to do is stop spending so much money.
You know, I -- my -- my mother taught me this.
You know, she only had a third-grade education, but -- you know, she knew how to stretch a dollar.
I mean, she would drive a car until it wouldn't make a sound, and then gather up all her coins and buy a new car.
In fact, if my mother were secretary of treasury, we would not be in a deficit situation.
But...
... you know, the -- the -- the fact of the matter is -- you know, if we fix the taxation system, make it absolutely fair, and get rid of the incredible regulations -- because every regulation is a tax, it's a -- on goods and services.
And it's the most regressive tax there is.
You know, when you go into the store and buy a box of laundry detergent, and the price has up -- you know, 50 cents because of regulations, a poor person notices that.
A rich person does not.
Middle class may notice it when they get to the cash register.
And everything is costing more money, and we are killing our -- our -- our people like this.
And Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton will say it's those evil rich people.
It's not the evil rich people.
It's the evil government that is -- that is putting all these regulations on us so that we can't survive.
Maria -- Maria, what you were talking about just now is called corporate inversion.
It's one of the biggest problems our country has.
Right now, corporations, by the thousands, are thinking of leaving our country with the jobs -- leave them behind.
They're leaving because of taxes, but they are also leaving because they can't get their money back and everybody agrees, Democrats and Republicans, that is should come back in.
But they can't get along.
They can't even make a deal.
Here is the case, they both agree, they can't make a deal.
We have to do something.
Corporate inversion is one of the biggest problems we have.
So many companies are going to leave our country.
Thank you.
Well, first let me address the tax issue because it's related to the entitlement issue and I want to thank you for holding a substantive debates where we can have debates about these key issues on taxes.
Here is the one thing I'm not going to do.
I'm not going to have something that Ted described in his tax plan.
It's called the value added tax.
And it's a tax you find in many companies in Europe.
Where basically, businesses now will have to pay a tax, both on the money they make, but they also have to pay taxes on the money that they pay their employees.
And that's why they have it in Europe, because it is a way to blindfolded the people, that's what Ronald Reagan said.
Now, you can support one now that's very low.
But what is to prevent a future liberal president or a liberal Congress from coming back and not just raising the income tax, but also raising that VAT tax, and that vat tax is really bad for seniors.
Because seniors, if they are retired, are no longer earning an income from a job.
And therefore, they don't get the income tax break, but their prices are going to be higher, because the vat tax is embedded in both the prices that business that are charging and in the wages they pay their employees.
When I am president of the United States, I'm going to side with Ronald Regan on this and not Nancy Pelosi and we are not having a vat tax.
Maria, I assume that I can respond to that.
This is a business flat tax.
It is imposed on business and a critical piece that Marco seems to be missing is that this 16 percent business flat tax enables us to eliminate the corporate income tax.
It goes away.
It enables us to eliminate the death tax.
If you're a farmer, if you're a rancher, if you are small business owner, the death tax is gone.
We eliminate the payroll tax, we eliminate the Obamacare taxes.
And listen, there is a real difference between Marco's tax plan and mine.
Mine gives every American a simple, flat tax of 10 percent.
Marco's top tax rate is 35 percent.
My tax plan enables you to fill out your taxes on a postcard so we can abolish the IRS.
Marco leaves the IRS code in with all of the complexity.
We need to break the Washington cartel, and the only way to do it is to end all the subsidies and all...
... the mandates and have a simple flat tax.
The final observation, invoked Ronald Reagan.
But that's not an accurate description of the plan.
Because, first of all, you may rename the IRS but you are not going to abolishes the IRS, because there has to be some agency that's going to collect your vat tax.
Someone's going to be collecting this tax.
In fact, Ronald Reagan's treasury, when Ronald Reagan's treasury looked at the vat tax, you know what they found?
That they were going to have to hire 20,000 new IRS agencies to collect it.
The second point, it does not eliminate the corporate tax or the payroll tax.
Businesses will now have to pay 16 percent on the money they make.
They will also have to pay 16 percent on the money they pay their employees.
So there are people watching tonight in business.
If you are now hit on a 60 percent tax on both your income and on the wages you pay your employees, where are you going to get that money from?
You're going to get it by paying your employees less and charging your customers more, that is a tax, the difference is, you don't see it on the bill.
And that's why Ronald Reagan said that it was a blindfold.
You blindfold the American people so that they cannot see the true cost of government.
Now 16 percent is what the rate Ted wants it at.
But what happens if, God forbid, the next Barack Obama takes over, and the next Nancy Pelosi, and the next Harry Reid...
and they decide, we're going to raise it to 30 percent, plus we're going to raise the income tax to 30 percent.
Now, you've got Europe.
Maria...
Maria, I'd just like to say...
Maria, I'd like to interrupt this debate on the floor of the Senate to actually answer the question you asked, which was on entitlements.
Do you remember that, everybody?
This was a question on entitlements.
And the reason -- and the reason...
... no, you already had your chance, Marco, and you blew it.
Here's the thing.
The fact is, the reason why...
If you'll answer the (inaudible) core question.
... the fact is -- the fact is the reason why that no one wants to answer entitlements up here is because it's hard.
It's a hard problem.
And I'm the only one up on this stage who back in April put forward a detailed entitlement reform plan that will save over $1 trillion, save Social Security, save Medicare, and avoid this -- avoid what Hillary Rodham Clinton will do to you.
Because what she will do is come in and she will raise Social Security taxes.
Bernie Sanders has already said it.
And she is just one or two more poll drops down from even moving further left than she's moved already to get to the left of Bernie on this.
We have seniors out there who are scared to death because this Congress -- this one that we have right now, just stole $150 billion from the Social Security retirement fund to give it to the Social Security disability fund.
A Republican Congress did that.
And the fact is it was wrong.
And they consorted with Barack Obama to steal from Social Security.
We need to reform Social Security.
Mine is the only plan that saves over $1 trillion and that's why I'm answering your question.
Can I just add one very quick thing?
And I just want to say, you know, last week we released our tax plan.
And multiple reputable journals, including The Wall Street Journal, said ours is the best.
Just want to get that out there, just saying.
Well, it's an interesting question because I'm very proud of my company.
As you too know, I know I built a very great company.
But if I become president, I couldn't care less about my company.
It's peanuts.
I want to use that same up here, whatever it may be to make America rich again and to make America great again.
I have Ivanka, and Eric and Don sitting there.
Run the company kids, have a good time.
I'm going to do it for America.
So I would -- I would be willing to do that.
I would put it in a blind trust.
Well, I don't know if it's a blind trust if Ivanka, Don and Eric run it.
If that's a blind trust, I don't know.
But I would probably have my children run it with my executives and I wouldn't ever be involved because I wouldn't care about anything but our country, anything.
Thank you.
Well, first off, let's face it, the FBI director James Comey was a friend of mine who I worked with as U.S. Attorney of New Jersey.
He was the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan.
He said, "there's a chill wind blowing through law enforcement in this country."
Here's why, the president of the United States and both his attorney's general, they give the benefit of the doubt to the criminal, not to the police officers.
That's the truth of the matter and you see it every time with this president.
Every time he's got a chance, going all the way back to -- remember that Great Beer Summit he had after he messed up that time.
This is a guy who just believes that law enforcement are the bad guys.
Now, I for seven years was the U.S. Attorney of New Jersey.
I worked hard with not only federal agents but with police officers and here's the problem, sanctuary cities is part of the problem in this country.
That's where crime is happening in these cities where they don't enforce the immigration laws.
And this president turns his back -- this president doesn't enforce the marijuana laws in this country because he doesn't agree with them.
And he allows states to go ahead and do whatever they want on a substance that's illegal.
This president allows lawlessness throughout this country.
Here's what I would do Neil, I would appoint an Attorney General and I would have one very brief conversation with that Attorney General.
I'd say, "General, enforce the law against everyone justly, fairly, and aggressively.
Make our streets safe again.
Make our police officers proud of what they do but more important than that, let them know how proud we are of them."
We do that, this country would be safe and secure again not only from criminals but from the terrorist who threaten us as well.
I'm the only person on this stage who's done that and we will get it done as President of the United States.
Well, I created a task force well over a year ago and the purpose was to bring law enforcement, community people, clergy and the person that I named as one of the co-chair was a lady by the name of Nina Turner, a former State Senator, a liberal Democrat.
She actually ran against one of my friends and our head of public safety.
And they say down as a group trying to make sure that we can begin to heal some of these problems that we see between community and police.
And they came back with 23 recommendations.
One of them is a statewide use of deadly force.
And it is now being put into place everyplace across the state of Ohio.
Secondly, a policy on recruiting and hiring, and then more resources for -- for training.
But let me also tell you, one of the issues has got to be the integration of both community and police.
Community has to understand that that police officer wants to get home at night, and not -- not to lose their life.
Their family is waiting for them.
At the same time, law enforcement understands there are people in the community who not only think that the system doesn't work for them, but works against them.
See, in Ohio, we've had some controversial decisions.
But the leaders have come forward to realize that protest is fine, but violence is wrong.
And it has been a remarkable situation in our state.
And as president of the United States, it's all about communication, folks.
It's all about getting people to listen to one another's problems.
And when you do that, you will be amazed at how much progress you can make, and how much healing we can have.
Because, folks, at the end of the day, the country needs healed.
I've heard a lot of hot rhetoric here tonight, but I've got to tell you, as somebody that actually passed a budget; that paid down a half-a-trillion dollars of our national debt, you can't do it alone.
You've got to bring people together.
You've got to give people hope.
And together, we can solve these problems that hurt us and heal America.
And that is what's so critical for our neighborhoods, our families, our children, and our grandchildren.
Well, first of all, this is an issue that's been debated now for 30 years.
And for 30 years, the issue of immigration has been about someone who's in this country, maybe they're here illegally, but they're looking for a job.
This issue is not about that anymore.
First and foremost, this issue has to be now more than anything else about keeping America safe.
And here's why.
There is a radical jihadist group that is manipulating our immigration system.
And not just green cards.
They're looking -- they're recruiting people that enter this country as doctors and engineers and even fiances.
They understand the vulnerabilities we have on the southern border.
They're looking -- they're looking to manipulate our -- the visa waiver countries to get people into the United States.
So our number one priority must now become ensuring that ISIS cannot get killers into the United States.
So whether it's green cards or any other form of entry into America, when I'm president if we do not know who you are or why you are coming, you are not going to get into the United States of America.
The issue is a dramatically different issue than it was 24 months ago.
Twenty-four months ago, 36 months ago, you did not have a group of radical crazies named ISIS who were burning people in cages and recruiting people to enter our country legally.
They have a sophisticated understanding of our legal immigration system and we now have an obligation to ensure that they are not able to use that system against us.
The entire system of legal immigration must now be reexamined for security first and foremost, with an eye on ISIS.
Because they're recruiting people to enter this country as engineers, posing as doctors, posing as refugees.
We know this for a fact.
They've contacted the trafficking networks in the Western Hemisphere to get people in through the southern border.
And they got a killer in San Bernardino in posing as a fiance.
This issue now has to be about stopping ISIS entering the United States, and when I'm president we will.
But Maria, radical Islamic terrorism was not invented 24 months ago; 24 months ago, we had Al Qaida.
We had Boko Haram.
We had Hamas.
We had Hezbollah.
We had Iran putting operatives in South America and Central America.
It's the reason why I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King and led the fight to stop the Gang of Eight amnesty bill, because it was clear then, like it's clear now, that border security is national security.
I think that's a mistake.
That's why I've been leading the fight to stop it.
And I would note the Senate just a few weeks ago voted to suspend refugees from Middle Eastern countries.
I voted yes to suspend that.
Marco voted on the other side.
So you don't get to say we need to secure the borders, and at the same time try to give Barack Obama more authority to allow Middle Eastern refugees coming in, when the head of the FBI tells us they cannot vet them to determine if they are ISIS terrorists.
Maria, let me clear something up here.
This is an interesting point when you talk about immigration.
And by the way, it's not just on immigration, you used to support TPA, now you say you're against it.
I saw you on the Senate floor flip your vote on crop insurance because they told you it would help you in Iowa, and last week, we all saw you flip your vote on ethanol in Iowa for the same reason.
That is not consistent conservatism, that is political calculation.
When I am president, I will work consistently every single day to keep this country safe, not call Edward Snowden, as you did, a great public servant.
Edward Snowden is a traitor.
And if I am president and we get our hands on him, he is standing trial for treason.
And one more point, one more point.
Every single time that there has been a Defense bill in the Senate, three people team up to vote against it.
Bernie Sanders, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz.
In fact, the only budget you have ever voted for, Ted, in your entire time in the Senate is a budget from Rand Paul that brags about how it cuts defense.
Here's the bottom line, and I'll close with this.
If I'm president of the United States and Congress tries to cut the military, I will veto that in a millisecond.
There's -- look, there's --
I'm going to get a response to that, Neil.
There's no way he launches 11 attack --
No, it's your record.
CRUZL But I will say --
-- at least half of the things Marco said are flat-out false.
They're absolutely false.
So let's start -- let's start with immigration.
Let's start with immigration and have a little bit of clarity.
Marco stood with Chuck Schumer and Barack Obama on amnesty.
I stood with Jeff Sessions and Steve King.
Marco stood today, standing on this stage Marco supports legalization and citizenship for 12 million illegals.
I opposed and oppose legalization and citizenship.
And by the way, the attack he keeps throwing out on the military budget, Marco knows full well I voted for his amendment to increase military spending to $697 billion.
What he said, and he said it in the last debate, it's simply not true.
And as president, I will rebuild the military and keep this country safe.
I would try to convince him otherwise, but this last back and forth between two senators -- back bench senators, you know, explains why we have the mess in Washington, D.C. We need a president that will fix our immigration laws and stick with it, not bend with the wind.
The simple fact is one of the ways, Maria, to solve the problem you described is narrow the number of people coming by family petitioning to what every other country has so that we have the best and the brightest that come to our country.
We need to control the border, we need to do all of this in a comprehensive way, not just going back and forth and talking about stuff --
Oh, I'll talk about that, too.
But you haven't asked me a question in a while, Neil, so I thought I'd get that off my chest if you don't mind.
I got that.
And the problem today is there's no confidence in Washington, D.C.
There needs to be more than one meeting, there needs to complete dialogue with the large technology companies.
They understand that there's a national security risk.
We ought to give them a little bit of a liability release so that they share data amongst themselves and share data with the federal government, they're not fearful of a lawsuit.
We need to make sure that we keep the country safe.
This is the first priority.
The cybersecurity challenges that we face, this administration failed us completely, completely.
Not just the hacking of OPM, but that is -- that is just shameful.
23 million files in the hands of the Chinese?
So it's not just the government -- the private sector companies, it's also our own government that needs to raise the level of our game.
We should put the NSA in charge of the civilian side of this as well.
That expertise needs to spread all across the government and there needs to be much more cooperation with our private sector.
You've got to keep asking.
You've got to keep asking because this is a hugely important issue.
If you can encrypt messages, ISIS can, over these platforms, and we have no ability to have a cooperative relationship --
Well, if the law would change, yeah.
But I think there has to be recognition that if we -- if we are too punitive, then you'll go to other -- other technology companies outside the United States.
And what we want to do is to control this.
We also want to dominate this from a commercial side.
So there's a lot of balanced interests.
But the president leads in this regard.
That's what we need.
We need leadership, someone who has a backbone and sticks with things, rather than just talks about them as though anything matters when you're talking about amendments that don't even actually are part of a bill that ever passed.
You know, in our country, there are a lot of people who feel as though they just don't have the power.
You know, they feel like if they don't have a lobbyist, if they're not wealthy, that somehow they don't get to play.
But all of my career, you know, having been raised in -- by a mailman father whose father was a coal miner, who died of black lung and was losing his eyesight; or a mother whose mother could barely speak English.
You see, all of my career, I've fought about giving voice to the people that I grew up with and voice to the people that elected me.
Whether it's welfare reform and getting something back for the hard-earned taxpayers; whether it's engaging in Pentagon reform and taking on the big contractors that were charging thousands of dollars for hammers and screw drivers and ripping us off; or whether it's taking on the special interests in the nursing home industry in Ohio, so that mom and dad can have the ability to stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home.
Look, that's who I stand up for.
That's who's in my mind
And if you really want to believe that you can get your voice back, I will tell you, as I have all my career, I will continue to fight for you, because you're the ones that built this country, and will carry it into the future.
Thank you.
Who can you count on to keep us safer, stronger and freer?
Results count, and as governor, I pushed Florida up to the top in terms of jobs, income and small business growth.
Detailed plans count, and I believe that the plan I've laid out to destroy ISIS before the tragedies of San Bernardino and Paris are the right ones.
Credibility counts.
There'll be people here that will talk about what they're going to do.
I've done it.
I ask for your support to build, together, a safer and stronger America.
Maria, Neil, thank you for a great debate tonight.
When I think about the folks who are out there at home tonight watching, and I think about what they had to watch this week -- the spectacle they had to watch on the floor of the House of Representatives, with the president of the United States, who talked a fantasy land about the way they're feeling.
They know that this country is not respected around the world anymore.
They know that this country is pushing the middle class, the hardworking taxpayers, backwards, and they saw a president who doesn't understand their pain, and doesn't have any plan for getting away from it.
I love this country.
It's the most exceptional country the world has ever known.
We need someone to fight for the people.
We need a fighter for this country again.
I've lived my whole life fighting -- fighting for things that I believe in, fighting for justice and to protect people from crime and terrorism, fighting to stand up for folks who have not had enough and need an opportunity to get more, and to stand up and fight against the special interests.
But here's the best way that we're going to make America much more exceptional: it is to make sure we put someone on that stage in September who will fight Hillary Clinton and make sure she never, ever gets in the White House again.
I am the man who can bring us together to do that, and I ask for your vote.
You know, in recent travels around this country, I've encountered so many Americans who are discouraged and angry as they watch our freedom, our security and the American dream slipping away under an unresponsive government that is populated by bureaucrats and special interest groups.
We're not going to solve this problem with traditional politics.
The only way we're going to solve this problem is with we, the people.
And I ask you to join me in truth and honesty and integrity.
Bencarson.com -- we will heal, inspire and revive America for our children.
You know, 200 years ago, America was founded on this powerful principle that our rights don't come from government.
Our rights come from God.
That's why we embraced free enterprise, and it made us the most prosperous people in the history of the world.
That's why we embraced individual liberty, and we became the freest people ever, and the result was the American miracle.
But now as I travel the country, people say what I feel.
This country is changing.
It feels different.
We feel like we're being left behind and left out.
And the reason is simple: because in 2008, we elected as president someone who wasn't interested in fixing America.
We elected someone as president who wants to change America, who wants to make it more like the rest of the world.
And so he undermines the Constitution, and he undermines free enterprise by expanding government, and he betrays our allies and cuts deals with our enemies and guts our military.
And that's why 2016 is a turning point in our history.
If we elect Hillary Clinton, the next four years will be worse than the last eight, and our children will be the first Americans ever to inherit a diminished country.
But if we elect the right person -- if you elect me -- we will turn this country around, we will reclaim the American dream and this nation will be stronger and greater than it has ever been.
13 Hours -- tomorrow morning, a new movie will debut about the incredible bravery of the men fighting for their lives in Benghazi and the politicians that abandoned them.
I want to speak to all our fighting men and women.
I want to speak to all the moms and dads whose sons and daughters are fighting for this country, and the incredible sense of betrayal when you have a commander-in-chief who will not even speak the name of our enemy, radical Islamic terrorism, when you have a commander-in- chief who sends $150 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, who's responsible for murdering hundreds of our servicemen and women.
I want to speak to all of those maddened by political correctness, where Hillary Clinton apologizes for saying all lives matter.
This will end.
It will end on January 2017.
And if I am elected president, to every soldier and sailor and airman and marine, and to every police officer and firefighter and first responder who risk their lives to keep us safe, I will have your back.
I stood yesterday with 75 construction workers.
They're tough, they're strong, they're great people.
Half of them had tears pouring down their face.
It was a terrible sight.
A terrible sight.
And the only reason we got them back is because we owed them with a stupid deal, $150 billion.
If I'm president, there won't be stupid deals anymore.
We will make America great again.
We will win on everything we do.
Thank you.
Anderson, thank you very much.
Over the last several weeks I had the opportunity to meet with a number of residents of Flint at a town meeting in Flint, and I have to tell you what I heard, and what I saw literally shattered me.
And, it was beyond belief that children in Flint, Michigan in the United States of America in the year 2016 are being poisoned.
That is clearly not what this country should be about.
As Anderson indicated, there's a lot of blame to go around, and one of the points that I have made is that I believe the Governor of this state should understand that his dereliction of duty was irresponsible.
He should resign.
But more importantly, what is happening in Flint to a lesser degree is happening throughout this country.
In recent years we have seen a proliferation of millionaires and billionaires, and increase in income and wealth inequality, and all over this country middle class families are struggling.
Cities and towns are struggling, in order to provide basic services.
Among many other things, we need to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, our water systems, our waste water plants, our roads and our bridges.
The wealthiest country in the history of the world has got to get its priorities right, take care of the people, no more tax breaks for billionaires.
Well, I'll start by saying amen to that.
We are here in Flint, I'm very grateful that my request that we hold this debate be held here so we can continue to shine a very bright spotlight on what has happened in this city.
I agree, the Governor should resign, or be recalled...
... support the efforts of citizens attempting to achieve that.
But, that is not enough.
We have to focus on what must be done to help the people of Flint.
I support a hundred percent the efforts by your senators and members of congress to get the money from the federal government in order to begin the work that must occur to fix the infrastructure.
I know the state of Michigan has a rainy day fund for emergencies, what is more important than the health and wellbeing of the people, particularly children?
It is raining lead in Flint, and the state is derelict in not coming forward with the money that is required.
And, we'll get to what we need to do to help the children and the people when I have a little more time because that's just as important as fixing the pipes.
Well Nikki, it's a very fair question.
Your government at all levels have let you and your children and the people of Flint down.
So I think that there are there several things.
All the repair work that is being done -- and Mayor Weaver program that we support to begin to help train people in Flint to be able to do this work to distribute the water.
Everything that is done has to be triple checked to regain your trust and to hold those who are responsible for fixing the pipes and delivering the clean water which has you said, you bathe in it and drink it and wash food in it.
You do everything with it.
Every one of us should have to run through in our minds how we use water every single day to understand the pressures and the real pain that families are going through.
So I will make sure as President that I double and triple check.
I will work with elected officials who I trust like your mayor and like your senators and member of Congress so that we can assure you that when it's fixed, you can trust it.
You deserve nothing less.
Well, I support what President Obama is doing.
He called for and got accountability from the officials at the EPA to make sure the state is doing its job.
He expanded Medicaid for helping kids particularly to get the health care they need.
He is also ordered that there be a Head Start program.
I support that.
When it comes to the water itself, we are supporting a program that Mayor Waver announced through Flint Waterworks to pay people in Flint, not outsiders, but people here to deliver the water while we are fixing the pipes.
I would do even more of that.
As president, what we were able to put together was a beginning.
As president, I would concentrate resources on the city for economic development for more jobs as we fix the water and provide the health and education, interventions that children need.
COOPER: Senator Sanders for Ms. Wade specifically?
What is going is a disgrace beyond belief.
As the president of the United States, this is what I would do is if local government does not have the resources -- if state government for whatever reason America shouldn't be poisoned, federal government comes in, federal government acts.
What is absolute incredible to me is that water rates have soared in Flint.
Second of all, to ease anxiety, CDC has to come in and examine every child and adult in this community in terms of the amount of lead they may have.
Thirdly, the wealthiest country has to rebuild the crumbling infrastructure, our water systems.
I have a bill for a trillion dollars, it creates 13 million jobs rebuilding flint, Michigan and communities all over the country.
That's a good point, Anderson.
Listen, I suppose they can trust the corporations who have destroyed Flint by a disastrous trade policy which have allowed them to shut down plants in flint and move to China or Mexico.
We could trust them I'm sure.
Or maybe -- you know, maybe, Anderson, tell you what -- we should -- maybe we should let Wall Street come in and run the city of Flint...
... because we know their honesty and integrity has done so much for the American people.
Look, we live in a democracy, and I'm not in (ph) the last person to deny that government is failing in many respects.
But at the end of the day, I will trust the people to create a government that works for them, rather than Wall Street or corporate America.
Well, I think that the people here in the region, who knew about this and failed to follow what you just said, rightly, the law required, have been eliminated from the EPA.
I don't -- well, I don't know how high it goes.
I would certainly be launching an investigation.
I think there is one.
I was told that -- you know, some of the higher-ups were pushing to get changes that were not happening.
So I would have a full investigation, determine who knew what, when.
And yes, people should be fired.
How far up it went, I don't know.
But as far as it goes, they should be relieved, because they failed this city.
But let me just add this, Anderson.
This is not the only place where this kind of action is needed.
We have a lot of communities right now in our country where the level of toxins in the water, including lead, are way above what anybody should tolerate.
So I'm not satisfied with just doing everything we must do for Flint.
I want to tackle this problem across the board.
And if people know about it and they're not acting, and they're in the government at any level, they should be forced to resign.
President Sanders would fire anybody who knew about what was happening and did not act appropriately.
And President Sanders would make the point that, how does it happen, in the wealthiest country in the history of the world?
What are our priorities when, among others, Republicans today are fighting for hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the wealthiest people?
How did we have so much money available to go to war in Iraq and spend trillions of dollars...
... but somehow not have enough money -- not just for Flint, the secretary is right.
There are communities all over this country -- it's not just infrastructure, it is education.
Detroit's public school system is collapsing.
Anderson, the bottom line is, and what my campaign is, is changing our national priorities.
We need a government that works for all of us...
... not just wealthy campaign contributors.
I will make a personal promise to you that the EPA and the EPA director that I appoint will make sure that every water system in the United States of America is tested, and that the people of those communities know the quality of the water that they are drinking, and that we are gonna have a plan to rebuild water systems in this country that are unsafe for drinking.
Well, I agree completely.
I want to go further though.
So, I want to do exactly what you said.
We were making progress on this in the 1990's.
I worked with then Senator Obama to get more money, more support to do more to remove lead.
That has, unfortunately, been in many ways, moved to a lower priority.
I will elevate it, and I will do everything I can.
Water, soil, and paint...
... We're going to get rid of it.
Well, that's going to be up to the legal system, Don.
I mean, I can't standing here -- I don't have all the facts, but people should be held accountable wherever that leads.
If it leads to resignation, or recall if you're in political office.
If it leads to civil penalties, if it leads to criminal responsibility.
There has to be an absolute accountability, and I will support whatever the outcome of those investigations are.
Well, I agree, you know?
We can't sit up here -- I can't sit up here and make judgment over whether or not somebody committed a criminal act.
But, I will tell you this that after an investigation, if people, in fact, were found to have committed a criminal act -- I talked to a mother.
Imagine this for a second, imagine a mother who had a bright seven-year-old gregarious girl doing well in school.
Two years later, that child is now in special education, intellectual capabilities significantly deteriorated.
That is a crime against that child, and the people of Flint.
And, clearly, people are going to have to be held accountable.
Well, I think because throughout my public career I have been evening the odds for people in every way that I could.
I started out with the Children's Defense Fund, I worked throughout my time as a young lawyer as a person, an activist.
Certainly, in Arkansas, then in the White House, to try to fix problems wherever I saw them.
And, this problem is one that is particularly outrageous and painful at the same time.
So, when I heard about it I immediately sent people here to find out what was going on.
It was almost unbelievable.
We have this problem in other places, but we don't say that it was actually caused by decisions made by public officials in positions of authority, as this one was.
Then, when I talked to the mayor I basically said, "What can I do to help?"
Then, when I came here, and I met with some of the mothers, and met their children, and heard their stories -- I'm just determined to do whatever I can.
So, I have put together resources from the private and philanthropic communities to help provide a bridge because you've got to get the federal money, you've got to get the state money, but I'm going to do everything I can.
And, I will be with Flint all the way through this crisis in whatever capacity I am.
And, if I'm president, it will always be a priority for action from me.
Well, first of all, that's not quite accurate.
I was here long before that.
I will you what I did.
What I did was meet very quietly in Detroit with parents and others who were impacted by this disaster.
And the second thing I did is hold a town meeting, which was as nonpolitical as I could make it for hundreds of people to tell me and the world through the media exactly what was happening here in Flint.
I think the fear and the legitimate fear of the people of Flint is that a certain point the TV cameras and CNN will disappear.
And people are going to be left struggling in order to live in a safe and healthy community.
All I can say is if you check my record going back a long time, I have stood with those who are hurting.
I have stood with those who have no money, and I have taken on virtually every powerful special interest in the United States of America.
That's my record and I'm proud of it.
I'm going to do what I think will work which is both carrots and sticks.
Let me talk about the carrots.
We're going to have a very clear set of proposals and incentives for manufacturing so that we change the way that companies think about making investments again in America.
I have a comprehensive manufacturing plan that I will be implementing.
We're also going to invest more on infrastructure as we both have said, "it's woefully under resourced."
That will put a lot of people to work.
I want to do more to help small businesses, they are the source of two thirds of our jobs and we have to help them start and grow, particularly minority and women-owned small businesses.
We need to do more to help create clean energy as a source of good jobs but I am also going to go after companies.
You know, when a company decides to leave like Nabisco is leaving and they have gotten tax benefits from Chicago and Illinois to stay there, I will claw back the benefits.
They will have to pay them back if they are leaving a place that actually invested in them.
They are going to have to pay an exit fee.
We are going to stop this kind of job exporting and we are going to start importing and growing jobs again in our country.
I am very glad, Anderson, that secretary Clinton discovered religion on this issue but it's a little bit too late.
Look, I was on a picket line in early 1990's against NFATA because you didn't need a PhD in economics to understand that American workers should not be forced to compete against people in Mexico making 25 cents an hour.
And the reason that I was one of the first, not one of the last to be in opposition to the TPP is that American workers...
... should not be forced to compete against people in Vietnam today making a minimum wage of $0.65 an hour.
Look, what we have got to do is tell corporate America that they cannot continue to shut down.
We've lost 60,000 factories since 2001.
They're going to start having to, if I'm president, invest in this country -- not in China, not in Mexico.
Well -- well, I'll tell you something else that Senator Sanders was against.
In January of 2009, President-Elect Obama asked everybody in the Congress to vote for the bailout.
The money was there, and had to be released in order to save the American auto industry and four million jobs, and to begin the restructuring.
We had the best year that the auto industry has had in a long time.
He voted against the money that ended up saving the auto industry.
I think that is a pretty big difference.
Well, I -- If you are talking about the Wall Street bailout, where some of your friends destroyed this economy...
You know...
... through -- excuse me, I'm talking.
If you're gonna talk, tell the whole story, Senator Sanders.
Let me tell my story.
You tell yours.
I will.
Your story is for -- voting for every disastrous trade agreement, and voting for corporate America.
Did I vote against the Wall Street bailout?
When billionaires on Wall Street destroyed this economy, they went to Congress and they said, "please, we'll be good boys, bail us out."
You know what I said?
I said, "let the billionaires themselves bail out Wall Street."
It shouldn't be the middle class of this country.
OK, so...
Wait a minute.
Wait.
Could I finish?
You'll have your turn, all right?
But ultimately, if you look at our records, I stood up to corporate America time and time again.
I went to Mexico.
I saw the lives of people who were working in American factories and making $0.25 an hour.
I understood that these trade agreements were going to destroy the middle class of this country.
I led the fight against us (sic).
That is one of the major differences that we have.
Well, if I -- if I could...
It was called CAFTA.
I oppose it.
Now let me get back to what happened in January of 2009.
The Bush administration negotiated the deal.
Were there things in it that I didn't like?
Would I have done it differently?
Absolutely.
But was the auto bailout money in it -- the $350 billion that was needed to begin the restructuring of the auto industry?
Yes, it was.
So when I talk about Senator Sanders being a one-issue candidate, I mean very clearly -- you have to make hard choices when you're in positions of responsibility.
The two senators from Michigan stood on the floor and said, "we have to get this money released."
I went with them, and I went with Barack Obama.
You did not.
If everybody had voted the way he did, I believe the auto industry would have collapsed, taking four million jobs with it.
I believe that the recklessness, the greed, and the illegal behavior of Wall Street drove this country into the worst economic downturn in the history of the United -- modern history of the United States of America.
And I will be damned if it was the working people of this country who had to bail out the crooks on Wall Street.
And what I proposed -- and I had an amendment that was defeated -- it was defeated by a voice vote on the floor of the Senate -- that said to those people on the top who benefited from Wall Street greed -- I said, "you pay for the bailout.
Don't go to my constituents, who are struggling to make ends meet."
In terms of the auto bailout, of course that made sense.
In terms of the stimulus package, of course that made sense, and I strongly supported President Obama's position on that.
But let us be clear, one of the major issues Secretary Clinton says I'm a one-issue person, well, I guess so.
My one issue is trying to rebuild a disappearing middle class.
That's my one issue.
Well, all I can say is that given the terrible pressures that the auto industry was under and that the middle class of this state and Ohio and Indiana and Illinois and Wisconsin and Missouri and other places in the Midwest were facing, I think it was the right decision to heed what President-elect Obama asked us to do.
He sent a letter, an authorized letter, asking us to support that to save the auto industry.
Yes, were there things in it that you and I would not have necessarily wanted?
That's true.
But when it came down to it, you were either for saving the auto industry or you were against it.
I voted to save the auto industry.
And I am very glad that I did.
Let me just say this, while we are on Wall Street, one of us has a super PAC.
One of us has raised $15 million from Wall Street for that super PAC.
One of us has given speeches on Wall Street for hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Now, I kind of think if you get paid a couple hundred thousand dollars for a speech, it must be a great speech.
I think we should release it and let the American people see what that transcript was.
And I have said and I will say again, I will be happy to release anything I have as long as everybody else does too, because what really is behind that question, Republicans and Democrats, is where I can stand up to Wall Street.
Well, let's have some facts instead of some rhetoric for a change.
I went to Wall Street when I was a United States senator.
I have a record.
And when it came time to stand up to Wall Street, he passed and signed the toughest regulation since the Great Depression with the Dodd-Frank regulations.
Well, I think we are in vigorous agreement on this.
I have said repeatedly no bank is too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail.
And I have said that I would use the tools in the Dodd-Frank regulations, that if any bank posed a systemic risk to the economy, they would be broken up.
Because we now have tools, laws that we didn't have before.
And I am very happy we did.
Because there does need to be accountability, including criminal accountability if it is called for.
Well, I'm blaming the trade policies.
You know what?
This is an amazing thing which I didn't know until recently, and I wonder how many people did know this.
Well, Hillary Clinton, and everybody else who supported these disastrous trade policies.
She wasn't alone.
We have many, many Republicans and far too many Democrats who supported these disastrous trade policies.
Do you know...
... Do you know that in 1960 Detroit Michigan was one of the wealthiest cities in America?
Flint, Michigan was a prosperous city, but then what happened is corporate America said why do I want to pay somebody in Michigan a living wage when I can pay slave wages in Mexico or China?
We're going to shut down, we're going to move abroad, we're going to bring those products back into this country.
Those trade policies, as much as any other set of policies, has resulted in the shrinking of the American middle class.
And, I'll tell you what else it did.
It's not only job loss by the millions, it is the race to the bottom so that new jobs in manufacturing, in some cases today, pay 50 percent less than they did 20 years ago.
How stupid is that trade policy?
You know, if we're going to argue about the 1990's instead of talking about the future, which I'd much prefer because I think every election is about the future, and you all deserve to know what we will do to help you have a brighter future -- but, if we are going to talk about the 1990's I think it's only fair to say that at the end of the 1990's, after two terms of my husband's presidency, the unemployment rate in Michigan was 4.4 percent.
There had been a net increase of 54,000 manufacturing jobs.
There had been a net increase of 653,000 jobs overall.
And, one of the ways jobs were brought to, and grown here in Michigan was through something called the Export-Import Bank which helped a lot of businesses, particularly small businesses, be able to export around the world.
Senator Sanders opposes that.
I think we're in a race for exports.
I think China, Germany, everybody else supports their businesses.
Here in Michigan there's been $11 billion dollars in recent years used to support exports, primarily from small businesses.
I favor that, he's opposed it.
I want to do everything I can for us to compete and win in the global economy...
... and that's what I will do as president...
...
I'll tell you what I say...
...
I'll tell you what I say.
Do you know what the other name of the Export-Import Bank is?
What it's called in Washington?
It's called the bank of Boeing because Boeing itself gets 40 percent of the money discharged by the Export-Import Bank.
Seventy-Five percent of the funds going from the federal government, the Export-Import Bank, goes to large, profitable corporations.
Many of these corporations have shut down in America, and have gone abroad to exploit poor people.
You know what?
I don't think it's a great idea for the American taxpayer to have to subsidize through corporate welfare profitable corporations who downsize in the United States of America.
... Seventy-Five percent of that money goes to large profitable corporations.
Well, let me tell you, I don't want to break the bad news.
Democrats are not always right.
Democrats have often supported corporate welfare...
Democrats have supported disastrous trade agreements, but on this issue I do not believe in corporate welfare, and in fact, secretary Clinton may know or not know, but as a member of the Financial Services Committee, I worked hard and successfully to make sure that at least 20 percent of the money went to small businesses which is where it should go and not to profitable corporations and downsizing in our country.
When I traveled around the world on you behalf as Secretary of State and went to 112 countries, one thing I saw everywhere was how European and Asian countries were supporting their companies back in their countries, to be able to make sales and contracts in a lot of the rest of the world.
In fact, without the export-import bank, supporting businesses of all sizes -- I believe more jobs would be lost here at home and more jobs literally would be exported.
Instead of exporting products, we would be exporting jobs.
I just believe that Senator Sanders took that lonely position because most of us who saw the results -- I saw it as a senator from New York.
Your Senators saw it here in Michigan.
They can give you the names of 240 companies in Michigan that have been helped.
There is a company in Levonia being helped, there are companies all over this state.
I know, if we are going to compete and win in the global economy, we can't let every other country support their companies and we take a hands off approach.
I will not agree with that.
I will tell you what, Anderson, after I investigated it, I concluded they did and here's why.
There two big plane manufacturers in the world, there's Airbus and Boeing.
Airbus does everything it can to get contracts to sell planes everywhere in the world.
We don't have as quite an aggressive outreach from our government.
I did go in many places around the world to sell American products because the alternatives were usually European, Asian, primarily Chinese products.
That to me was an unacceptable concession.
So yes, Boeing and other big companies get support just like their competitors do from the companies that they are from in the countries that provide the support.
Isn't it tragic that the large multinational corporations making billions of dollars a year, shutting down in America, going to China, going to Mexico?
Absolutely they need a handout from the American middle class -- I don't think so.
Second of all.
Second of all, secretary Clinton traveled the world, she has been to Europe.
And let's talk about Europe versus the United States.
I'm sure that when you were in Europe, and France, and Germany and the U.K., and all of the other countries; you noticed something and that is every one of those countries guarantees health care to all of their people as a right.
And I am sure you know as you know you do that in countries like the U.K. compared to America, we are spending almost three times as much as they spend in the U.K. for health care for our people.
We are spending 50 percent more than the French.
When we talk about Europe and their pluses and minuses, one thing they have done well that we should emulate and that is guaranteed health care for all people for a better care for all.
We are on the path to doing that thanks to President Obama and the Affordable Care Act, we have 90 percent coverage.
We are lacking 10 percent.
We are going to stay on that and get to 100 percent universal coverage.
Well, first of all I am looking at your daughter and I'm very grateful that she is laughing and she is on a road to recovery.
But it never should have happened.
I think we have to try everything that works to try to limit the numbers of people and the kinds of people who are given access to firearms.
The Brady Bill, which has been in effect now for about 23 years, has kept more than two million purchases from going forward.
So we do have to continue to try to work on that because not every killer will have the same profile.
But the comprehensive background checks, closing the gun show loophole, closing the online loophole, closing what's called the Charleston loophole, where you get a gun at the end of three days, even if the background check is not completed which is what the killer in Charleston did.
And then they found out later, he shouldn't have gotten the gun when he killed nine people at Mother Emmanuel Church.
I also believe, so strongly Gene (ph), that giving immunity to gunmakers and sellers was a terrible mistake.
And it also disrupted what was a very promising legal theory, to try to get makers to do more to make guns safer for example.
To try to give sellers more accountability for selling guns when they shouldn't have.
They can be held accountable.
And then I do think we have got to have a public...
Well, we've got to have a public discussion, because we have created a culture in which people grab for guns all the time.
I remember President Obama being on television maybe three months ago.
Showed the secretary members as well.
She knows the president, I know the president.
And he is generally speaking in public and he's not a very emotional guy.
And he -- after the mass killing in Oregon if my memory is correct, he said look.
There -- to be honest with you, let's be honest.
Nobody has a magic solution to this problem.
Any lunatic tomorrow, any person can walk into a theater and do something horrific.
And you know what?
For us to tell you that that absolutely will not happen would be untrue.
But what the president said, he said look, this is a tough issue.
But we have got to do everything we possibly can to minimize the possibility of these mass killings.
You are looking at a guy who comes from a rural state with no gun control.
I agree with what the secretary said.
We need to expand and improve the instant background checks.
Bottom line is people who should not have guns in America should not be able to buy guns in America.
Absolutely, I agree.
Look, that bill had some sensible provisions in it.
It had the banning of bullets that pierce policemen's armor.
Is that a good thing?
I think we would want to get rid of that.
particular legislation had safety locks on guns so the kids do not pick them up and shoot them.
That bill had bad things in it.
What I have said...
Absolutely.
That was a very arbitrary decision.
What that real debate was about, as you may or may not know, was about how long it would take for the instant background check to go into effect.
I wanted that instant background check to go into effect as soon as possible.
That was the most important part of that bill.
Well, this is what I say, if I understand it -- and correct me if I'm wrong.
If you go to a gun store and you legally purchase a gun, and then, three days later, if you go out and start killing people, is the point of this lawsuit to hold the gun shop owner or the manufacturer of that gun liable?
If that is the point, I have to tell you I disagree.
I disagree because you hold people -- in terms of this liability thing, where you hold manufacturers' liability is if they understand that they're selling guns into an area that -- it's getting into the hands of criminals, of course they should be held liable.
But if they are selling a product to a person who buys it legally, what you're really talking about is ending gun manufacturing in America.
I don't agree with that.
Well, that -- that is not -- that is not what happened, and I think it's important for people to understand.
Because of the proliferation of guns, because of the epidemic of gun violence in our country, there were a group of cities, states, and other concerned people who, in the late 90s and in the early 2000s, were working on legal theories that they thought would force gun makers to do more to make guns safer and force sellers to be much more responsible.
The NRA saw this happening, and they said, "we've got to stop it.
Last thing in the world we want is to have guns that you can only shoot with your fingerprint, or to have guns with such strong safety locks on them that they may not be sellable."
So the NRA went to the Congress, and the head of the NRA has said this was the most important NRA legislation in more than 20 years...
... and they basically went to the Congress -- I was there.
I was in the Senate.
And they said, "give us absolute immunity."
...and they sell products all the time that cause harm...
So let's say this.
Let's say this.
... and they're held responsible.
If I understand -- and -- you know, as I understand it, what you're really talking about is not what Secretary Clinton is responding to.
As I understand it -- and maybe I'm wrong on this, but what you were essentially saying, and what people are saying, is that, if somebody who is crazy or a criminal or a horrible person goes around shooting people, the manufacturer of that gun should be held liable.
And if that is your position, then what you are saying, essentially -- if that is the case, as I understand it -- it's not what Secretary Clinton is talking about.
I agree with what she said.
But if that is the case, then essentially, your position is there should not be any guns in America, period.
That is like the NRA position.
No.
Can I -- can I finish, please?
All right?
And you can -- there are people who hold that view.
And that's fine, if you hold it.
I think what you do is you hold those people who have used the gun accountable.
You try to make...
... guns as safe as possible, but I would disagree on that.
Anderson, I just want to finish, because this -- I know some of the parents from Sandy Hook.
I want people in this audience to think about what it must feel like to send off your first grader, little backpack, maybe, on his or her back, and then the next thing you hear is that somebody has come to that school using an automatic weapon, an AR-15, and murdered those children.
Now, they are trying to prevent that from happening to any other family.
Hold...
And the best way to do that is to go right at the people...
... you talk about corporate greed?
Hold it.
The gun manufacturers sell guns to make as much money as they can make.
You know, I think it is a little bit -- it is a little bit -- look, what happened at Sandy Hook, what happened in Michigan, what has happened far too often all over this country is a terrible, terrible tragedy, and we have got to do everything we can, as I mentioned a moment ago, to end these mass killings.
But, as I understand what your question is -- and, you're not the only person whose heart was broken.
I know, I was there in the Senate when we learned about this killing.
It is almost unspeakable to talk about some lunatic walking into a -- I mean; it is hard to even talk about it.
We all feel that way.
But it, as I understand it, Anderson, and maybe I'm wrong, what you're really talking about is people saying let's end gun manufacturing in America.
That's the implications of that, and I don't agree with that.
Well, Don't, let me say this, Senator Sanders voted for that bill, we both supported it.
And, I think it's fair to say we did because back then there was an outcry over the rising crime rate, and people from all communities were asking that action be taken.
Now, my husband said at the NAACP last summer that it solved some problems, but it created other problems, and I agree.
And, one of those problems was, unfortunately, a move to expand the reasons why people would be incarcerated, not just at the federal level which is what this bill about, but in states and localities as well.
And, that's why the very first speech that I gave in this campaign was about criminal justice reform, and ending the era of mass incarceration because I believe absolutely that too many families were broken up, too many communities were adversely affected.
So, we've got to do a bunch of things.
On the criminal justice side, look, we've got to have better policing.
That means body cameras, that means ending profiling, that means doing everything we can to make sure there's respect between the community and the police.
And, when it comes to incarceration...
... That means we have to limit mandatory minimums, we have to end disparities and treatment at last through (ph) incarceration...
Well, Senator Sanders voted for it as well.
Are you going to ask him the same question?
Probably will.
I just said that.
He said at the NAACP that there were some aspects that worked well.
The violence against women provisions have worked well, for example.
But, other aspects of it were a mistake and I agree.
That's why I'm focused, and have a very comprehensive approach toward fixing the criminal justice system, going after systemic racism that stalks the criminal justice system, ending private prisons, ending the incarceration of low-level offenders, and I am committed to doing that.
You know, as I think Secretary Clinton knows, as we all know, there are bills in congress that have bad stuff, there are bills in congress that have good stuff.
Good stuff and bad stuff in the same bill.
Now, if I have voted against that bill, Secretary Clinton would be here tonight and she'd say, "Bernie Sanders voted against the ban on assault weapons.
Bernie Sanders voted against the violence against women act."
Those were provisions in the bill, as the Secretary just indicated.
So, in that bill there was some good provisions, I have been a fierce fighter against domestic violence ever since I was mayor in Burlington.
Violence against women act has protected millions of women in this country, it was in that bill.
The ban on assault weapons, that's what I have fought for my whole life.
It was in that bill.
Now, what you are reading though is I went to the floor, as I recall, and that's what I said.
I tried to get the death penalty aspects in that bill out.
Secretary Clinton have a disagreement.
I was then, and I am now opposed to the death penalty.
So, to answer your question, what you read was a congressman who was torn, who said there are good things in that bill, there are bad things overall.
I voted for it.
You are not talking about me, are you?
Well, I think the best answer -- I don't know that I can give you a definitive answer here, but I will give you this answer.
When I was a young man at the University of Chicago, I worked with fellow black and white students trying to desegregate the University of Chicago owned housing.
Most candidates for president, don't put this on their resume, but I was arrested by the Chicago police for trying to desegregate the Chicago school system.
In 1963, and an important day for me, I went to the march on Washington led by Dr. King for jobs and freedom.
Dr. King has been an important inspiration for me.
In this campaign, if you go to berniesanders.com and read our position on criminal justice, it is I believe the strongest position of any candidate.
We're going to provide education and jobs for those kids, not jails or incarceration.
Let me go answer Mr. Mcghee's question because I think it's a profound one.
I think the most important that happened to me was a combination of my church and youth minister when I was a teenager, insisting that we go in to inner-city Chicago because I lived in a suburb and have exchanges with kids in black and hispanic churches.
It was also important for me to be a baby-sitter for the children of migrant workers and to learn more about their lives, and to hear Dr. King speak in Chicago when I was about 14 years old.
That got me thinking about what I needed to do to try to fulfill my faith.
When I was in law school, I had the opportunity to mead a visionary woman, named Mary Right Adelman, who worked with Dr. King who was the first African-American woman who passed the Mississippi bar.
I asked her for a job and she said she didn't have any money.
I was working my way through law school and she said if I could get a job and get myself paid, she would give me a job.
So I got law students a Civil Rights Research Council Grant.
The first thing she did was send me to look at South Carolina, to investigate juveniles being sent to adult jails.
The second thing she did was to send me to Alabama to investigate segregated academies.
So from that moment until today, I am so grateful for my experiences as a very young woman driven by my church and my experiences working for the Children's Defense Fund which have given me some insight and have lit a fire inside me to do everything I can to address systemic racism.
Well, Don, if I could, I think being a white person in the United States of America, I know that I have never had the experience that so many people, the people in this audience have had.
And I think it's incumbent upon me and what I have been trying to talk about during this campaign is to urge white people to think about what it is like to have "the talk" with your kids, scared that your sons or daughters, even, could get in trouble for no good reason whatsoever like Sandra Bland and end up dead in a jail in Texas.
And I have spent a lot of time with the mothers of African-American children who have lost them, Trayvon Martin's mother.
And I've gotten to know them.
I've listened to them.
And it has been incredibly humbling because I can't pretend to have the experience that you have had and others have had.
But I will do everything that I possibly can to not only do the best to understand and to empathize, but to tear down the barriers of systemic racism that are in the criminal justice system, in the employment system, in the education and health care system.
That is what I will try to do to deal with what I know is the racism that still stalks our country.
Well, let me just very briefly tell you a story.
When I was in one of my first years in Congress, I went to a meeting downtown in Washington, D.C. And I went there with another congressman, an African-American congressman.
And then we kind of separated during the meeting.
And then I saw him out later on.
And he was sitting there waiting and I said, well, let's go out and get a cab.
How come you didn't go out and get a cab?
He said, no, I don't get cabs in Washington, D.C.
This was 20 years ago.
Because he was humiliated by the fact that cabdrivers would go past him because he was black.
I couldn't believe, you know, you just sit there and you say, this man did not take a cab 20 years ago in Washington, D.C. Tell you another story, I was with young people active in the Black Lives Matter movement.
A young lady comes up to me and she says, you don't understand what police do in certain black communities.
You don't understand the degree to which we are terrorized, and I'm not just talking about the horrible shootings that we have seen, which have got to end and we've got to hold police officers accountable, I'm just talking about every day activities where police officers are bullying people.
You don't know what it's like to be hassled when you walk down the street or you get dragged out of a car.
And I believe that as a nation in the year 2016, we must be firm in making it clear.
We will end institutional racism and reform a broken criminal justice system.
It's not a question of being better than President Obama, it is a question of building on the work that President Obama has done, the very important work.
No, well, he has given us a good, good basis and foundation.
We have got to do better than that.
And of course we should.
But here's what I would do.
I would end -- I would make sure that the Department of Justice investigated every killing of a citizen of this country when they are under apprehension from a police officer or when they are killed in police custody.
I would end the militarization of local police departments.
I would develop model programs to make police departments look like the communities that they serve.
I would end minimal sentencing and give judges more discretion.
I would recognize that substance abuse and drug addiction is a health issue, not a criminal issue.
And I would make sure that those people who left jail had the education and job training so they don't go back into the same environment which got them in jail in the first place.
Well, I was speaking about drug cartels and criminal activity that was very concerning to folks across the country.
I think it was a poor choice of words, I never used it before, I haven't used it since, I would not use it again.
Because my whole life, to go back to what I was saying to Mr. Mcgee (ph), is, you know, really, ever since I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund, is to try to figure out ways to even the odds for people that are left out and left behind.
And I know very well that we have too many kids in our country right now who are living in poverty, who are going to schools like the ones in Detroit that have mold and rodents in them.
I saw that in South Carolina.
It's unfortunately across America.
So what we have got to do is provide more opportunities earlier in the lives of every child.
That's why I believe in supporting families, early childhood education, universal pre-kindergarten, help kids be successful.
And here is Flint, we've got to do more to mitigate against the effects of lead, because too many kids are having the experiences I've been told about, where they're falling back in school, where they are having headaches because of the lead exposure.
So we're going to have to do even more here than we would do in most other counties.
But can I respond to that briefly?
Just in this.
I am not sure which legislation that was.
But I think it may have been the Welfare Reform, so-called...
No, it was the crime bill.
Oh, it was the crime bill.
Crime bill.
But during that same period, '96.
There was a bill called -- so-called, it had a long title to it, Welfare Reform Bill.
And this bill really was a bill that scapegoated the poorest people in this country.
I strongly opposed that legislation.
Secretary Clinton had a different position then.
Bad bill.
Well, once again, if we're going to argue about the '90s, let's try to get the facts straight.
That bill had a lot of provisions that unfortunately were stripped out by George W. Bush, by Republican governors.
And I disagreed with the way it was applied.
And I have a very clear set of ideas about what should be done to try to provide more support, including trying to cut poverty in half in the next years.
But if we are going to talk about the '90s, let's talk about 23 million new jobs, incomes went up for everybody.
The median African- American income went up 33 percent at the end of the '90s and we lifted more people out of poverty than at any other time in recent history.
So we were on the right path.
More jobs, rising incomes.
Along came George W. Bush and trickle down economics and brought us the Great Recession, which thank goodness President Obama has been digging us out of ever since.
Secretary Clinton is right.
In the 1990s, we created a whole lot of jobs.
Good.
And I supported many of your husband's initiatives.
But in the 1990s, you know what we also did?
We deregulated Wall Street, which allowed Wall Street to end up destroying our economy.
We passed NAFTA and other disastrous trade agreements which had a horrendous impact on African-Americans in particular, in Flint, in Detroit and all across this country.
So when we talk about the '90s, you're right.
A lot of good things happened, but a lot of bad things happened.
I voted against those trade agreements.
And I voted against Wall Street deregulation.
Well, thank you very much for not being resigned to that horrendous situation, but being prepared to stand up and fight back...
... That's what we need all over this country.
And, let me be very honest with you, hard thing to say, but it is true.
A great nation is judged not by how many millionaires and billionaires it has, but by how it treats the most vulnerable amongst us, and that is the children, and that is the elderly.
And, do you know what?
We should be ashamed of how we treat our kids and our senior citizens.
We have a Republican leadership in congress now fighting for hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks for the top two-tenths of one percent, but somehow we can't come up with the money to fix Detroit's crumbling public school system.
Somehow we cannot make sure that Detroit has qualified, and good teachers.
Somehow we can't make sure that there are summer programs for your children, and after school programs for your children.
Somehow we cannot do what other countries around the world, is provide quality childcare and pre-K. We have got to change our national priorities, no more tax breaks for billionaires, and large corporations.
We are going to invest in our children, and have the best public school system in the world.
That is a disgrace.
So, when you ask me about my priorities, my priorities are that no, we're not going to give tax breaks to the wealthy.
We're going to ask them to start paying their fair share of taxes so we can raise the money to make sure that every child in this country, in Detroit, in Vermont, gets the quality education that he or she deserves.
Mrs. Kim (ph), here is what I would do as president.
Number one, I would reinstate a program we did have during the 1990's where the federal government provided funding to repair and modernize public schools because a lot of communities can't afford to do that on their own.
Secondly, I would use every legal means at my disposal to try to force the Governor and the state to return the schools to the people of Detroit -- to end the emergency management...
... which, I believe, if you look at the data, the situation has only gotten worse with these emergency managers that have put the system further in debt.
Number three, I want to set-up inside the Department of Education, for want of a better term, kind of an education SWAT team, if you will.
Where we've got qualified people, teachers, principals, maybe folks who are retired, maybe folks who are active, but all of whom are willing to come and help.
When Detroit gets back their schools, they should have all the help they can get to be able to get teachers in the classroom, to be able to find spaces while schools are being repaired.
And, I also would look at how we could through the federal government support more teachers because we're going to have a teacher shortage in some of the hardest to teach districts...
... including Detroit.
You know, I am proud to have been endorsed by the AFT and the NEA, and I've had very good relationship with both unions, with their leadership.
And we've really candid conversations because we are going to have to take a look at -- what do we need in the 21st century to really involve families, to help kids who have more problems than just academic problems?
A lot of what has happened and honestly it really pains me, a lot of people have blaming and scape-goating teachers because they don't want to put the money into the schools system that deserve the support that comes from the government doing it's job.
You know what - I have told my friends at the top of both unions, we've got take a look at this because it is one of the most common criticisms.
We need to eliminate the criticism.
You know, teachers do so much good, they are often working under most difficult circumstances.
So anything that could be changed, I want them to look at it.
I will be a good partner to make sure that whatever I can do as president, I will do to support the teachers of our country.
What our campaign is about, is asking people to think big not small.
And when we think big and we talk about education, we've got to ask ourselves a simple question, how is it -- starting at college that hundreds of thousands of bright young people are today, unable to go to college because they can't afford it?
How is it that maybe your kid -- and when I was growing up, we didn't have any money -- we're not even dreaming about going to college because they knew it was another world.
So starting with the top, now I know some people think it's a radical idea, I don't.
I believe that every public college and university in this country should be tuition free.
So that your child regardless of the income of your family knows that if she's studies hard, she is going to be able to go to college.
And you know what else we do?
We invest in child care.
Right now, you've got child-care workers making McDonald's wages, that is crazy.
I want well trained, well paid, child care workers to give our youngest kids advance opportunities.
Well, there's no doubt, we have an enormous backlog of infrastructure repairs.
Here's what I'd do - the congress finally got around to pass the Highway Transportation Bill, which should never have been partisan - it turned into be one partisan argument.
I want to go further.
I want to put 250 billion dollars additional, on top of what Congress has done.
That gets us to a half a billion.
I want to start a National Infrastructure Bank.
I want to capitalize it with 25 billion that I believe will leverage 10 times that, that's another 250 billion.
So I'm trying to do this in a way that will gain support and be affordable but there's no doubt, we have to do more on our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports.
And as we've talked in the beginning here, under our ground, our water systems, our sewer systems.
We have pipelines that are leaking and that are dangerous.
We have so much work to be done and if we can put millions of peoples to work, I think my plan is a very good way to begin doing that work and get people out there doing it.
Well, let's begin by discussing the problem.
As you've indicated, the American Society of Civil Engineers say we need trillions of dollars -- trillions of dollars -- just to bring up our infrastructure to deal with -- water systems like Flint, just to bring them up to decent levels.
We have suggested a trillion-dollar investment.
Now, you know how we're gonna pay for that?
I'll tell you how we're gonna pay for that.
Right now, this country is losing $100 billion every single year because profitable corporations are stashing their profits in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda and in other tax havens...
... and in some cases, not paying five cents in federal income tax.
I will eliminate that outrageous loophole, and we will raise $1 trillion.
And by the way, not only do we rebuild our crumbling infrastructure -- $1 trillion over five years creates 13 million decent-paying jobs.
You know, I don't support it when any locality or any state is against it, number one.
I don't support it when the release of methane or contamination of water is present.
I don't support it -- number three -- unless we can require that anybody who fracks has to tell us exactly what chemicals they are using.
So by the time we get through all of my conditions, I do not think there will be many places in America where fracking will continue to take place.
And I think that's the best approach, because right now, there places where fracking is going on that are not sufficiently regulated.
So first, we've got to regulate everything that is currently underway, and we have to have a system in place that prevents further fracking unless conditions like the ones that I just mentioned are met.
My answer -- my answer is a lot shorter.
No, I do not support fracking.
And by the way -- by the way, Anderson, I'm glad you raised the issue of climate change, because the media doesn't talk enough about what the scientists are telling us, and that is, if we don't get our act together...
... the planet that we're gonna leave our children may not be healthy and habitable.
I have introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation in the history of the Senate, which, among other things, calls for a tax on carbon, massive investments...
... in energy efficiency, wind, solar and other sustainable energy.
This is a crisis we have got to deal with now.
Yes.
You know -- you know, one of the differences -- look, Secretary Clinton -- and I've said this before, and I admit it -- she has the support of all the governors -- Democratic -- all the Senators, all the Congressmen.
I don't.
I am not part of that establishment.
I plead guilty.
I happen to be a member of the Environmental Committee.
I have talked to scientists all over the world.
This is a national crisis.
We have gotta be bold now.
We gotta transform our energy system to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
We've gotta do it yesterday.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, what I am suggesting is that we have a corrupt campaign finance system.
And instead of standing up to that finance system...
And instead of standing up to that finance system, Secretary Clinton has super PAC, which is raising huge amounts -- well, I hate to say the word "huge," every time I say huge it...
I am doing it a different way.
Well, first, let me say I think I have the most comprehensive plan to combat climate change.
It sets some very big goals, a half billion more solar panels deployed by the end of my first term, if I'm so fortunate to be president.
And enough clean energy to power every home by the end of my second term.
What I am looking at is how we make the transition from where we are today to where are today to where we must be.
I worked with President Obama during the four years I was secretary of state to begin to put pressure on China and India and other countries to join with us to have a global agreement which we finally got in Paris.
So I am committed to and focused on how we make that transition.
I've already said we are taking away the subsidies for oil and gas, but it is important that people understand that a president can't go ordering folks around.
Our system doesn't permit that.
I am going to set the goals.
I will push everybody as hard as I can to achieve those goals.
We will make progress on clean renewable energy and create millions of jobs through that.
I don't have any comment.
I don't know that.
I don't believe that there is any reason to be concerned about it.
I admire what Senator Sanders has accomplished in his campaign.
I have more than 850,000 donors, most of them give less than $100.
I am very proud of that.
And I just want to make one point.
You know, we have our differences.
And we get into vigorous debate about issues, but compare the substance of this debate with what you saw on the Republican stage last week.
Well, let me make a couple of responses.
Let me pick up on the last point the secretary made.
You know, we are, if elected president, going to invest a lot of money into mental health.
And when you watch these Republican debates, you know why we need to invest in that.
But here's the difference.
Here is the difference.
It's not a personal difference.
We just do things differently.
All right.
I honestly -- look, we have a corrupt campaign finance system.
And what Secretary Clinton is saying and what every candidate who receives from the fossil fuel industry or the drug companies or Wall Street say, not going to impact me.
The question the American people have to ask is, why are these people putting millions of dollars into candidates if it's not going to make a difference?
And that is why, by the way, that is why one of my top priorities, if elected president will be to overturn this outrageous Citizens United Supreme Court (INAUDIBLE).
And...
And that is one of the many reasons we must all support President Obama's right to nominate a successor to Justice Scalia and demand that the Senate hold hearings and a vote on that successor because there are so many issues at stake.
On the first day of my campaign, I said, we are going to reverse Citizens United.
And if we can't get it done through the court, I will lead a constitutional amendment effort to reverse it that way.
Well, let me start by saying that the last time I checked as of last night, Donald Trump had received 3.6 million votes, which is a good number.
And there is only one candidate in either party who has more votes than him and that's me.
And, I am building a broad, diverse coalition across our country.
I'm very excited by the support we're receiving.
I have said, and I'll repeat here, I think that Donald Trump's bigotry, his bullying, his bluster, are not going to wear (oh) well on the American people.
So, I will look forward to engaging him because, you know, I don't think we need to make America great again.
America didn't stop being great, we have to make it whole again.
We have to knock down the barriers, we have to end the divisiveness, we have to unify the country.
And, if I'm fortunate enough to be the nominee that's exactly what I will do.
... That was one of the nice things that he said about me.
I'll tell you something, this is my right arm.
I'm prepared to give -- no, I shouldn't say that.
For a start, but almost -- not all, but almost every poll has shown that Sanders versus Trump does a lot better than Clinton versus Trump.
Right here in Michigan there was a poll done, I think yesterday, or today, had me beating Trump in Michigan by 22 points.
Secretary Clinton beat him as well, but not by so much.
And, that's true nationally, and in many other states.
And, the other reason I think we can beat Trump is that our campaign is generating an enormous amount of excitement.
Just in the last two days we have won the caucuses in Maine, we won that tonight with a very large turnout.
We won Nebraska, we won Kansas, and Kansas was the biggest turnout in their caucus history.
I think we are exciting working class people, young people who are prepared to stand up and demand that we have a government that represents all of us.
And not just the few.
Well, I think -- well, the answer is yes, and I think when we talk about God whether it is Christianity, or Judaism, or Islam, or Buddhism, what we are talking about is what all religions hold dear.
And, that is to do unto others as you would like them to do unto you.
I am here tonight, and I'm running for president.
I'm a United States Senator from my great state of Vermont because I believe that, because I believe morally and ethically we do not have a right to turn our backs on children in Flint, Michigan who are being poisoned, or veterans who are sleeping out on the street.
What I believe as the father of seven beautiful grandchildren, I want you to worry about my grandchildren, and I promise you I will worry about your family.
We are in this together.
No.
I am very proud to be Jewish, and being Jewish is so much of what I am.
Look, my father's family was wiped out by Hitler in the Holocaust.
I know about what crazy and radical, and extremist politics mean.
I learned that lesson as a tiny, tiny child when my mother would take me shopping, and we would see people working in stores who had numbers on their arms because they were in Hitler's concentration camp.
I am very proud of being Jewish, and that is an essential part of who I am as a human being.
Well, I have been several times in your services and have joined in those prayers and have also been privileged to lead them in some settings.
I pray very specifically for people whom I know by name.
People who either have gone through or are experiencing difficult times, illness, divorce, death, disappointment, all of the life experiences that confront most of us.
I pray for the will of God to be known that we can know it and to the best of our limited ability, try to follow it and fulfill it.
I have said many times that, you know, I am a praying person, and if I haven't been during the time I was in the White House, I would have become one.
Because it's very hard to imagine living under that kind of pressure without being able to fall back on prayer and on my faith.
So I do pray for people in authority.
I try to think about what they are going through, even when I disagree with them.
Trying to find some common ground, some common understanding that perhaps can make me more empathetic.
I don't always succeed.
I will tell you that.
So I pray on a pretty regular basis during the day, because I need that strength and I need that support.
And especially when you are in the position that I'm in and that Senator Sanders is in, where you are asking people to vote for you, to give you the most important job, not only in our country, but I would argue in the world.
I think humility is one of the most important attributes that you bring to both that seeking and then if you're fortunate enough, to that holding of office and that's what I will try to do.
Well, I'm running for president to do my very best to knock down every barrier that stands in the way of America realizing its potential and every American having a chance to live up to his or her God-given potential.
We have a lot of work to do.
We have economic barriers.
That's why I've laid out plans for more good jobs with rising incomes.
We have barriers that stand in the way of quality health care.
That's why I will build on the Affordable Care Act.
We have barriers to education.
That's why I want to start early and provide debt-free tuition, and deal with student debt so it is no longer the burden that weighs down so many young Americans.
And I do want to take on the barriers of systemic racism.
I may not have experienced them, but I see the results every single day.
So I'm asking for your support in the primary here in Michigan on Tuesday.
I'm asking for it, and I will do whatever I can as the Democratic nominee to run a campaign you'll be proud of.
I don't intend to get into the gutter with whoever they nominate, but instead to lift our sights, to set big goals, to make it clear that America's best days can be and are ahead of us.
Well, Megyn, let me say at the outset to the men and women of Iowa, thank you for the incredible hospitality over this past year.
By Monday, you will have welcomed me into all 99 counties in Iowa.
You will have welcomed my dad to preach at your churches.
You will have welcomed Heidi and our girls, Caroline and Catherine, into your homes.
And I'm so grateful for the diligence, for the seriousness with which the men and women of Iowa approach this process.
If I am elected president, keep an eye on the tarmac, because I'll be back, because Iowa in 2017 will not be fly-over country.
It will be fly-to country.
Now, secondly, let me say I'm a maniac and everyone on this stage is stupid, fat, and ugly.
And Ben, you're a terrible surgeon.
(LAUGHTER) Now that we've gotten the Donald Trump portion out of the way...
I want to thank everyone here for showing the men and women of Iowa the respect to show up and make the case to the people of this state and the people of the country why each of us believe we would make the best commander in chief.
Well, let me be clear, if Donald engages in insults or anybody else, I don't intend to reciprocate.
I am glad Donald is running.
I'm glad he has produced enormous enthusiasm, and, every Donald Trump voter or potential voter, I hope to earn your support.
I know everyone else on this stage hopes to earn your support.
Now, there is a difference between personal insults and attacks -- between going into the mud with ad hominems and focusing on issues and substance.
I think issues and substance, policy and vision and record should be the meat of politics.
That's fair game but that's where I'm going to focus.
That's how I focused from the beginning of the campaign and it is how I intend to continue going forward.
Chris, let's begin by being clear what this campaign is about.
It's not about Donald Trump.
He's an entertaining guy.
He's the greatest show on earth.
This campaign is about the greatest country in the world and a president who has systematically destroyed many of the things that made America special.
You see, we usually elect presidents in America that want to change the things that are wrong in America.
Barack Obama wants to change America.
Barack Obama wants America to be more like the rest of the world.
We don't want to be like the rest of the world.
We want to be the United States of America.
That is why Hillary Clinton cannot win this election.
Hillary Clinton this week said Barack Obama would make a great Supreme Court justice.
The guy who systematically and habitually violates the constitution on the Supreme Court?
I don't think so.
If I'm our nominee, I will unite this party and we'll defeat Hillary Clinton and we will turn this country around once and for all, after seven years of the disaster that is Barack Obama.
Bret, we're just starting.
The first vote hasn't been counted.
Why don't we let the process work.
I trust Iowans, Granite staters (ph), people in South Carolina, people in Nevada, to start this process out.
I kind of miss Donald Trump.
He was a little teddy bear to me.
We always had such a loving relationship in these debates and in between and the tweets.
I kind of miss him.
I wish he was here.
Everybody else was in the witness protection program when I went after him on behalf of what the Republican cause should be: conservative principles, believing in limited government, believing in accountability.
Leading by fixing the things that are broken.
Look, I am in the establishment because my dad, the greatest man alive was president of the United States and my brother, who I adore as well as fantastic brother was president.
Fine, I'll take it.
I guess I'm part of the establishment Barbara Bush is my mom.
I'll take that, too.
But this election is not about our pedigree, this is an election about people that are really hurting.
We need a leader that will fix things and have a proven record to do it.
And we need someone who will take on Hillary Clinton in November.
Someone who has a proven record, who has been tested, who is totally transparent.
I released 34 years of tax returns...
... and 300,000 e-mails in my government record.
To get the information from Hillary Clinton, you need to get a subpoena from the FBI.
They're not wrong.
But what's wrong is your premise in the question.
You can do both.
There is no reason why you can't stand for principles, go and fight for them and be able also, to have to get things done in government.
You know, what people are frustrated about in Washington, D.C.., and I know the folks out there tonight are incredibly frustrated because what they see is a government that doesn't work for them.
You know, for the 45-year-old construction worker out there, who is having a hard time making things meet.
He's lost $4,000 in the last seven years in his income because of this administration.
He doesn't want to hear the talk about politics Megyn and who is establishment and who is grassroots.
And who's compromised and who is principled.
What he wants is something to get done.
And that's the difference between being a governor and having done that for the last six years in New Jersey and being someone who has never had to be responsible for any of those decisions.
Barack Obama was never responsible for those decisions.
Hillary Clinton has never been responsible for those kind of decisions where they were held accountable.
I've been held accountable for six years as the governor of New Jersey and with a Democratic legislature, I've gotten conservative things done.
That's exactly what I'll do as president of the United States.
You know, I've always had a great deal of respect.
There's probably no person I respect more in the country or in recent history than my father.
I think he was probably the most honest man in politics that we've ever seen in a generation.
And so in no way have I ever said that I don't embrace my father or love my father or appreciate everything that he has done for the country.
I think what's interesting about where that liberty vote goes that my father brought to the Republican Party is, I don't think they're necessarily going to go for Ted.
You know, Ted didn't show up.
We had an audit-the-Fed vote, which was the biggest thing my dad had been advocating for, for 30 years, Ted didn't have time to show up.
He was the only Republican that didn't show up for it.
And so I think really that vote is going to stay in the Paul household.
I think more of it is coming and it's going to grow.
The NSA is another big issue.
Ted said he was for NSA reform, but then he told Marco Rubio, no, no, no, I voted for the bill because I'm for the government collecting 100 percent of your cell phone records.
I don't think Ted can have it both ways.
They want to say they're getting some of the liberty vote.
But we don't see it happening at all.
We think we're going to do very well in Iowa with the liberty vote.
Well, I agree with Rand that I very much respect Ron Paul and that I think anyone who is able to win in the Republican Party has to be able to bring together the disparate elements of the Reagan coalition.
You've got to be able to bring together conservatives and evangelicals and libertarians, and stitch together a winning majority.
When it comes to the audit the Fed bill, as Rand knows well, I was an original sponsor of the bill, I'm strongly supportive of it.
It didn't have the votes to pass.
And I had commitments to be at a town hall in New Hampshire.
But I look forward to signing that bill into law as president and auditing the Fed and providing needed accountability at the Federal Reserve.
I think, you know, Rand and I have some significant issues on policy, but I respect Rand.
He believes everything he stands for.
I do respect Rand.
But I want to be frank about what I stand for.
I believe the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest power in the world.
And I believe only with a strong America will we defeat this radical group, this apocalyptic group called ISIS.
That's why when I'm president we are going to rebuild our intelligence capabilities.
And they're going to tell us where the terrorists are.
And a rebuilt U.S. military is going to destroy these terrorists.
And if we capture any of these ISIS killers alive, they are going to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and we're going to find out everything they know, because when I'm president, unlike Barack Obama, we will keep this country safe.
May I respond?
Well, I mean, I was talked about in the question.
Well, first of all, I had a national reporter say, you know, there's three lanes.
There's the establishment lane, the anti- establishment lane, and then there's the Kasich lane.
And the reason is, is that I've been a reformer all of my career, fighting to reform welfare, fighting to reform the Pentagon, also being in a position to balance the budget, because that is very, very hard to do.
You know, the situation is this.
We cannot fix things in this country -- the Social Security, the border, balancing the budget, getting wages to grow faster -- unless we lead as conservatives, but we also invite people in from the other party.
We have to come together as a country.
And we have to stop all the divisions.
And, you know, that's been my message in New Hampshire.
And having been in New Hampshire and here in Iowa, but in New Hampshire, I just received the support of seven out of eight of the newspapers in that state because they see positive, they see unity, they see coming together, and they see a record of change and a record of accomplishment.
And it isn't because I'm all that great.
It's because I've been assembling a team of people who want to be involved in something that's a little bigger than themselves.
I'll keep -- I'll keep heading in that direction, believe me.
Well, I will gladly confess that I'm the only one on this stage with no political title.
You're not going to hear a lot of polished political speech from me, but you will hear the truth.
And I don't think you have to be a politician to tell the truth.
In fact, sometimes it's not that way...
... and I've had more two a.m. phone calls than everybody here put together, making life and death decisions, put together very complex teams to accomplish things that have never been done before.
And we are in a situation right now in our country that we have never been in before.
We need people who think out of the box and can solve problems; can utilize the resources around them; very smart people, to focus on the problem and solve the problem.
The American people are terrified.
That's why we have this abnormal situation going on right now.
We don't need more of the same solutions.
We need different solutions to solve the problems and to save our nation.
(APPLAUSE)
Well, Chris, I will apologize to nobody for the vigorousness with which I will fight terrorism, go after ISIS, hunt them down wherever they are, and utterly and completely destroy ISIS.
You know, you claim it is tough talk to discuss carpet bombing.
It is not tough talk.
It is a different, fundamental military strategy than what we've seen from Barack Obama.
Barack Obama right now, number one, over seven years, has dramatically degraded our military.
You know, just two weeks ago was the 25th anniversary of the first Persian Gulf war.
You want to know what carpet bombing is?
It's what we did in the first Persian Gulf war; 1,100 air attacks a day, saturation bombing that utterly destroyed the enemy.
Right now, Barack Obama is launching between 15 and 30 air attacks a day.
He's not arming the Kurds.
We need to define the enemy.
We need to rebuild the military to defeat the enemy.
And we need to be focused and lift the rules of engagement so we're not sending our fighting men and women into combat with their arms tied behind their backs.
Well, again, I mean, obviously, as already has been pointed out, the only budget that Ted has ever voted for is a budget that Rand Paul sponsored that brags about cutting defense spending.
And I think that's a bad idea for the following reason.
ISIS is the most dangerous jihadist group in the history of mankind.
ISIS is now found in affiliates in over a dozen countries.
ISIS is a group that burns people alive in cages; that sells off little girls as brides.
ISIS is a group that wants to trigger an apocalyptic showdown in the city of Dabiq -- not the city of Dubuque; I mis-said -- mis-said that wrong once (inaudible) time -- the city of Dabiq in Syria.
They want to trigger an apocalyptic Armageddon showdown.
This group needs to be confronted and defeated.
They are not going to go away on their own.
They're not going to turn into stockbrokers overnight or open up a chain of car washes.
They need to be defeated militarily, and that will take overwhelming U.S. force.
Today, we are on pace to have the smallest Army since the end of World War II, the smallest Navy in 100 years, the smallest Air Force in our history.
You cannot destroy ISIS with a military that's being diminished.
When I'm president, we are rebuilding the U.S. military because the world is a safer and a better place when America is the strongest military in the world.
Chris, in 1981, when Ronald Reagan came to the Oval Office, he encountered a military that had been debilitated just as the current military has, just like Jimmy Carter weakened our readiness, undermined our ability to defend this country, so too has Barack Obama.
Just as morale in the military has plummeted in the last seven, so it had then.
What Reagan did is he began with tax reform and regulatory reform, unleashing the engine of the American free enterprise system.
It brought booming economic growth and that growth fueled rebuilding the military.
I intend to do the exact same thing to defeat radical Islamic terrorism --
... and to devote the resources from the booming economy to rebuilding our Navy, rebuilding our Air Force, rebuilding our Army and ensuring we have the capacity to keep this country safe.
My budget was mentioned.
My budget was mentioned.
Well, let me say that I do believe that the vote on NSA made the country less safe.
Well, let me tell you what the country should really be worried about.
I watched that town hall meeting with the Democrats the other night, and I heard Hillary Clinton asked a direct question by an Iowan, and that's what Iowans like to do.
They like to ask direct questions.
And, they asked about her email situation.
And, here's what she said to the American people.
She did it for convenience.
For her convenience.
She put America's secrets at risk for her convenience.
She put American intelligence officers at risk for her convenience.
She put American strategy at risk for her convenience.
Let me tell you who's not qualified to be President of the United States, Chris.
Hillary Rodham Clinton did that to our country.
She is not qualified to be President of the United States.
The fact is what we need is someone on that stage who has been tested, who has been through it, who has made decisions, who has sit (ph) in the chair of consequence and can prosecute the case against Hillary Clinton on...
... that stage, and that is exactly what I am ready to do.
Chris?
Chris I was mentioned in that question.
No, you weren't.
Your name wasn't mentioned, Ted.
... Actually, I was...
... Chris, keep it coming...
... Chris, your questions that you...
... What was your question...
...
Your question was you have disagreed...
... (inaudible) opening statement.
...
Thank you Chris...
...
This entire question was an attack, but that's (inaudible)
Well, first, I was critical of the Senators not giving the authorization for the use of military force.
They should have made it more open ended for the next president.
We shouldn't have the war fighters have their arms tied behind their back as President Obama wanted to do, but they had a chance to show support and it wasn't popular at the time.
It became popular after the attack in Paris, and San Bernardino.
Now we hear the tough talk.
Prior to that, in the Reagan Library, I gave a detailed plan.
Exactly what to do as it relates to ISIS.
And it is from the lessons from history that we do this because if we allow this to fester, we're going to have Islamic terrorism, multi-generations of it all across this country.
The caliphate of ISIS has to be destroyed, which means we need to arm directly to Kurds, imbed our troops with the Iraqi military, re engage with the Sunni tribal leaders.
Get the lawyers off the damn backs of the military once and for all.
Have a no fly zone in Syria and create safe zones to deal with the refugees.
But, more importantly, to train a Sunni-led force in Syria to take out ISIS with our support...
... ground and air.
That's what we need to to, and I laid that out prior to the crisis with the advice of a lot of people, including 12 Medal of Honor recipients that I'm proud that they're supporting my campaign.
Chris, I would note that that the last four questions have been, "Rand, please attack Ted.
Marco, please attack Ted.
Chris, please attack Ted.
Jeb, please attack Ted..."
Let me just say this...
... Well, no, no.
A debate actually is a policy issue, but I will say this.
Gosh, if you guys ask one more mean question I may have to leave the stage.
Chris, the most important determination any voter is going to make in this election is who's best prepared to be Commander in Chief.
Who has the experience, who has the knowledge, who has the judgement, who has the clarity, and vision and strength of resolve to keep this country safe.
That is what this debate is all about, and I would suggest let's stay focused on those issues -- rather than just attacks directed at each other.
...
Senator Cruz, I'd like to respond...
... First of all -- Let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after.
First of all...
First of all...
... and I'd like to respond.
... do I go -- let me go first, and then you can please recognize Rand after.
But...
... first of all...
Thank you, Marco.
... first of all, I'm -- don't worry, I'm not leaving the stage no matter what you ask me.
And second of all...
... and I think -- you know, Governor -- Jeb, you -- the attack that -- the authorization that Barack Obama asked for was not against ISIS.
It was against Assad.
And John Kerry described it as attacks that would be unbelievably small.
I don't think the United States should be engaged in symbolic military activity.
So it was not against ISIS, it was against -- it was against Assad.
I think the United States military is operating under rules of engagement that are too strict...
...and that do not allow us to pursue victory.
When I'm president, that will change.
Chris...
... there was a question about foreign policy, by the way, and experience.
And I -- I thought, if I didn't jump in, I might not be able to tell everybody this.
I think they'd want to hear it.
Look, I served on...
... but wait a minute...
...the only reason is -- look...
OK.
I've always listened to you, Megyn.
Go ahead.
Yes -- thank you.
Megyn, that's the problem.
Radical Muslims and radical Islam is not just hate talk.
It's hate action.
They blow people up.
Look what they did in San Bernardino.
Look, the threat we face from ISIS is unprecedented.
There has never been a jihadist group like this.
They have affiliates in over a dozen countries now.
They are the best funded radical jihadist group in the history of the world, and they have shown a sophisticated understanding of the laws of other countries on how to insert fighters into places, and they are actively plotting to attack us here at home and around the world.
We must keep America safe from this threat.
And yes, when I am president of the United States, if there is some place in this country where radical jihadists are planning to attack the United States, we will go after them wherever they are, and if we capture them alive, they are going to Guantanamo.
(inaudible).
Yeah (ph), no, I think that's a -- that's a huge mistake, to be closing down mosques.
But I would say that if you want to defend the country, it begins with border security.
And this is where I've had my disagreement with Senator Rubio.
When he brought forward the "Gang of Eight" bill to give citizenship to those who came here illegally, I put forward an amendment that says we should have more scrutiny on those who are coming as students, those who are coming as immigrants, those who are coming as refugees, because we had two refugees come to my town in Bowling Green and try to attack us.
Marco opposed this because they made a deal.
He made a deal with Chuck Schumer that he would oppose any conservative amendments.
And I think that's a mistake, and I just don't think Marco can have it both ways.
You can't be in favor of defend us...
... against Islam -- radical Islam -- if you're not for border security.
Might I respond?
The first thing -- I don't know of anyone who's not in favor of fully vetting people that are trying to come into this country, other than perhaps Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
I think we all support that.
Rand's amendment was not the right way to do it.
I do believe that people who are trying to come to the United States -- this country has a right to know who they are and why they are coming.
And that's why I've been clear, when I am the president of the United States of America, we don't know who you are, and we don't know why you're trying to come to the United States, you are not going to get in, because the radical threat that we now face from ISIS is extraordinary and unprecedented...
... and when I'm president, we are keeping ISIS out of America.
Talk about what?
I...
Well, because you can do it without profiling, Megyn, when you do it on the facts.
That's not profiling, that's law enforcement.
And that's the difference between somebody who knows how to do this and somebody who's never done it before.
They knew they were talking about the issues of attacking people, Megyn.
They knew that.
Listen, I think that what people should do is use their common sense.
And the fact is, let law enforcement make those decisions.
I've told people that from the time I was U.S. attorney 13 years ago.
It's not for them to make those decisions about whether or not something is legal or illegal, or profiling or not.
You see something that's suspicious, you call law enforcement and let law enforcement make those decisions.
That's what should be done.
That can be done.
That can be done without profiling people.
What that is, is just common sense.
They thought something was wrong.
And here's the problem in this country right now.
The problem is that Barack Obama has made law enforcement the enemy, Hillary Clinton has made law enforcement the enemy.
They're not supporting our law enforcement officers, it's making everybody nervous to get out of their cars, if you're a law enforcement officer.
It's making...
... everybody nervous to get out of their cars if you're a law enforcement officer.
It's making people in neighborhoods nervous to go to law enforcement.
As president, I will support law enforcement and we'll stop radical terrorist attacks in this country by supporting our intelligence community and law enforcement community.
Well, I don't know about the GOP messaging, but I can tell you about my messaging.
You know, need to stop allowing political correctness to dictate our policies, because it's going to kill us if we don't.
And in the Holy Land Foundation trial in 2006 in Texas, they had a memorandum, an explanatory memorandum that talked about the fact that Americans would be easy to overcome and to commit civilization jihad because they were going to be trying to protect the rights of the very people who were trying to subvert them.
But I believe in the Teddy Roosevelt philosophy.
Teddy Roosevelt said, we are a nation of immigrants.
As such, everybody is welcome from any race, any country, any religion, if they want to be Americans.
If they want to accept our values and our laws.
If not, they can stay where they are.
Well, look the Joint Terrorism Task Force needs resources and tools.
And those are made up of the FBI, state and local law enforcement.
And Megyn, it's best not to talk anymore about back doors and encryption, it will get solved, but it needs to be solved in the situation of the White House with the technology folks.
But I just have to tell you that it's best with some of these things not be said.
Now I want to go back something.
See, I was there when Reagan rebuilt the military.
I was there in '89 when the wall came tumbling down because we were strong.
And I was there when we went into the Gulf War.
We didn't win that war just from the air, we won that war by assembling a group of Arab leaders who stood in the Rose Garden and stood with America.
We want to destroy ISIS, it has to be in the air and on the ground.
It has to be with our friends in the Arab world and our friends in Europe, the coalition that we had when we went to the first Gulf War.
And then when we win that, and we will win that against ISIS as it settles down, and we should leave.
Because we shouldn't be policemen of the world.
But what we need to do is turn it over to the regional powers to be able to handle that.
But we have a unique time in America to connect with people all around the world that understand that there's an existential threat against all of them, the Arabs, the Jordanians, the Saudis, the Egyptians, our friends in Europe, including the Turks.
So we have a unique opportunity to bring everybody together.
I saw Reagan do it, I've seen other presidents do it.
And frankly, if you want to be commander in chief, you have to have the experience.
At the same time we're doing all that, the Pentagon must be reformed so we get what we need for our men and women in uniform.
All of that together, we're going to be just fine and America is going to continue to lead the world.
Of course.
And there's all sorts of ways that can be done at the state, local and federal level to do that.
But the first duty of the next president of the United States is to fix the mess at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
That's his first responsibility.
Look, we have waiting lists for veterans that are -- that are leaving because of the sequester where we're gutting the military.
More and more military personnel are leaving becoming veterans, and the waiting list grows.
They've given out $140 million of bonuses to Veterans Department employees, including reducing the waiting lists, without giving veterans care.
People died, and only three people have been fired.
I will make sure that we fire the sheer incompetence inside the Department of Veterans Affairs and then we'll give veterans a choice card so that they don't have to travel hours and hours to get care if they want to go to their private provider.
You want to make the Veterans Administration do a better job, give them -- give veterans choices and you'll get a much better result.
And as it relates to all the other organizations, let me give you a good example.
In Houston, Texas, there's an organization in place because someone acted on their heart, wanted to make sure that there's no homeless veterans in Houston.
And they've come pretty close to that without federal government assistance.
We need to mobilize the entire country to treat our veterans and treat them with much more respect than they get today.
You know, I've supported legislation to allow body cameras.
I've been to Ferguson, I've been trying to look for solutions to our criminal justice problem.
One thing I discovered in Ferguson was that a third of the budget for the city of Ferguson was being reaped by civil fines.
People were just being fined to death.
Now you and I and many of the people in this audience, if we get a $100 fine, we can survive it.
If you're living on the edge of poverty and you get a $100 fine or your car towed, a lot of times you lose your job.
I also think the war on drugs has disproportionately affected our African-American community, and what we need to do is make sure that the war on drugs is equal protection under the law and that we don't unfairly incarcerate another generation of young African-American males.
In Ferguson, for every 100 African-American women, there are only 60 African-American men.
Drug use is about equal between white and black, but our prisons -- three out of four people in prison are black or brown.
I think something has to change.
I think it's a big thing that our party needs to be part of, and I've been a leader in Congress on trying to bring about criminal justice reform.
Yes.
You want one?
How about one that I've done in New Jersey for the last six years.
That's get rid of Planned Parenthood funding from the United States of America.
Bigger than that?
Let me tell you something, when you see thousands upon thousands upon thousands of children being murdered in the womb, I can't think of anything better than that.
Sure.
Well, let's take it one at a time.
First of all, we have seen now in six years of Obamacare that it has been a disaster.
If I'm elected president, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
Now, once that is done, everyone agrees we need healthcare reform.
It should follow the principles of expanding competition, empowering patients, and keeping government from getting in between us and our doctors.
Three specific reforms that reflect those principles.
Number one, we should allow people to purchase health insurance across state lines.
That will create a true 50-state national marketplace which will drive down the cost of low-cost, catastrophic health insurance.
Number two, we should expand health savings accounts so people can save in a tax-advantaged way for more routine healthcare needs.
And number three, we should work to de-link health insurance from employment so if you lose your job, your health insurance goes with you and it is personal, portable and affordable.
And I'll tell you, Bret, I think that's a much more attractive vision for healthcare than the Washington-drive, top-down Obamacare that is causing so many millions of people to hurt.
No, they shouldn't.
And I believe that Puerto Rico ought to have the right of self-determination.
If I was a Puerto Rican, I'd vote for statehood so that they have full citizenship.
They serve in the military.
They would have to pay federal taxes.
They would -- they would accept the responsibilities of full U.S. citizenship.
But they should have the right of determine -- self-determination.
Before you get to that, though, Puerto Rico is going to have to deal with the structural problems they face.
You know, it's -- it's a fact that if you can pay for a $79 one-way ticket to Orlando, and you can escape the challenges of a declining economy and high crime rates, you move to Orlando.
And a lot of people are doing that.
And the spiraling out-of- control requires Puerto Rico to make structural reforms.
The federal government can play a role in allowing them to do that, but they should not -- the process of statehood or the status of Puerto Rico won't be solved until we get to the bigger issue of how you deal with the structural economic problems they're facing right now.
Well, you've got to be on top of it right away.
And, you know, I don't know all the details of what Rick Snyder has done.
I know there have been people who have been fired; people who are being held accountable.
But the fact is, every single engine of government has to move when you see a crisis like that.
And I've had many situations in the state of Ohio where we've had to move, whether it's storms, whether it was a horrible school shooting.
There are many crises that come -- a water crisis in Toledo.
You've got to be on top of it.
You've got to go the extra mile.
You've got to work with local communities and you've got to work with the federal government.
Because you realize that people depending on you.
And so, you go the extra mile.
But people have to be alert.
They have to be alert to problems.
And when you see a problem, you must act quickly to get on top of it.
And people at home are saying they've got a problem, listen to them.
Because most of the time, they're absolutely correct.
So the fact is that we work for the people.
The people don't work for us.
And we have to have an attitude when we're in government of serving-hood.
That's what really matters.
We serve you.
You don't serve us.
We listen to you and -- and then we act.
Well, Bret, first that's not entirely the story.
At the time, the liberal governor of Florida, who claimed he was a Republican -- his name was Charlie Crist -- he wanted to impose cap-and-trade on Florida.
And I opposed it.
I was the first person out of the box that opposed him on it.
And then we saw that the leading candidates for president at the time, both the Republican and the Democrats, all supported it.
And what we said is, if they're going to impose this on us, we better prepare to protect the state from it.
But I have never supported cap- and-trade and I never thought it was a good idea.
And I was clear about that at the time.
And I do not believe it's a good idea now.
I do not believe that we have to destroy our economy in order to protect our environment.
And especially what these programs are asking us to pass that will do nothing to help the environment, but will be devastating for our economy.
When I am president of the United States of America, there will never be any cap-and-trade in the United States.
Never support.
Never have and never will support any effort to grant blanket legalization amnesty to folks who have entered, or stayed in this country illegally.
First of all, earned path to citizenship is basically code for amnesty.
It's what they call it.
And, the reality of it is this, it is unfair to the people that have legally entered this country to create an alternative for individuals who entered illegally, and knowingly did so.
You cannot grant amnesty.
If the American people see us granting amnesty they will never again believe in legal immigration.
They will never again support it, and that's wrong for our country, bad for our future.
No, because if you look at the quote, and it's very specific.
...
I do not support amnesty...
... No, I said I do not support blanket amnesty...
...
It was...
...
What I've always said is that this issue does need to be solved.
They've been talking about this issue for 30 years, and nothing ever happens.
And, I'm going to tell you exactly how we're going to deal with it when I am president.
Number one, we're going to keep ISIS out of America.
If we don't know who you are, or why you're coming, you will not get into the United States.
Number two, we're going to enforce our immigration laws.
I am the son and grandson of immigrants.
And I know that securing our borders is not anti-immigrant and we will do it.
We'll hire 20,000 new border agents instead of 20,000 new IRS agents.
We will finish the 700 miles of fencing and walls our nation needs.
We'll have mandatory E-verify, a mandatory entry/exit tracking system and until all of that is in place and all of that is working and we can prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control, nothing else is going to happen.
We are not going to round up and deport 12 million people, but we're not going to hand out citizenship cards, either.
There will be a process.
We will see what the American people are willing to support.
But it will not be unconstitutional executive orders like the ones Barack Obama has forced on us.
Well, I'm kind of confused because he was the sponsor of the Gang of Eight bill that did require a bunch of thresholds but ultimately allowed for citizenship over an extended period of time.
I mean, that's a fact.
And he asked me to support that.
And I -- I supported him because I think people, when you're elected, you need to do things.
And he led the charge to finally fix this immigration problem that has existed now for, as Marco says, for 30 years.
And then he cut and run because it wasn't popular amongst conservatives, I guess.
Here's what I believe.
And I wrote a book about this called Immigration Wars.
You can get it at $2.99 on Amazon.
It's not a bestseller.
I can promise you.
There won't be any -- you can get it.
It's affordable for everybody.
We should have a path to legal status for the 12 million people that are here illegally.
It means, come out from the shadows, pay a fine, earn legal status by working, by paying taxes, learning English.
Not committing crimes and earn legal status where you're not cutting in front of the line for people that are patiently waiting outside.
(APPLAUSE) I think that is the -- I think that's the conservative consensus pragmatic approach to how to solve this problem.
May I respond?
It's interesting that Jeb mentions the book.
That's the book where you changed your position on immigration because you used to support a path to citizenship.
So did you.
Well, but you changed the -- in the book...
Yeah.
So did you, Marco.
You wrote a book where you changed your position from a path of citizenship to a path of legalization.
And the bottom line is this, we are not going to be able to do anything on this issue until we first bring illegal immigration under control.
The American people have been told for 30 years they're going to enforce the border, they're going to build a wall and it never gets built and it never happens.
It is very clear there will be no progress on this issue in any way, shape or form, until you prove to the people of this country that illegal immigration is under control.
And when I'm president, we are going to bring it under control once and for all after 30 years of talking about it.
Marco, Marco -- he brought up my name.
I have supported a consensus approach to solving this problem wherever it came up.
and in 2007 it almost passed when my brother was president of the United States.
A bipartisan approach got close.
And when you led the charge with the Gang of Eight, I supported it because you asked me to.
I think it's important for people in elected office to try to forge consensus to solve problems.
There's never going do be perfect bill.
But when you didn't do that and you ask people to support, you shouldn't cut and run.
But Megyn...
You should stick with it and that's exactly what happened.
He cut and run.
And that's a tragedy because now...
... it's harder and harder to actually solve this problem.
There's not going to be consensus on this issue until we enforce our immigration laws.
That is abundantly clear.
You're not going to be able to ram down the throat of the American people your approach.
The only way we're are going to be able to move forward after two migratory crises with minor, after two unconstitutional executive orders, the only way forward on this issue is to first bring illegal immigration under control.
And until that happens there's not going to be consensus on this issue.
I want this bill to be voted down.
I don't want immigration reform to fail.
I want immigration reform to pass.
I believe if this amendment were to pass, the chances of this bill passing into law would increase dramatically.
I believe if the amendments I introduced were adopted, that the bill would pass.
And my effort in introducing them was to find a solution that reflected common ground and that fixed the problem.
If the proponents of this bill actually demonstrate a commitment not to politics, not to campaigning all the time, but to actually fixing this problem, to finding a middle ground.
That would fix the problem, and also allow, for those 11 million people who are here illegally, a legal status, with citizenship off the table.
Anyone can go online at tedcruz.org and read exactly what it said.
I introduced...
But -- but Megyn, the bill was 1,000 pages.
I introduced a series of amendments, each designed to fix problems in the bill.
The fact that each amendment didn't fix every problem didn't mean that I supported the rest of the bill.
And I'll tell you who supported my amendment -- Jeff Sessions, the strongest opponent of amnesty in the United States Congress.
And he did so because taking citizenship off the table was important, and it revealed the hypocrisy of the proponents of this bill, who were looking for votes.
Listen, we can solve immigration.
We just heard an argument back and forth that we can't solve immigration.
I have a detailed immigration plan that is on my website, tedcruz.org.
It was designed with Iowa's own Congressman Steve King and Jeff Sessions, and...
... we have the tools in federal law to do this now.
We can build the fence.
We can triple the border patrol.
We can end sanctuary cities by cutting off...
... funding to them.
We can end welfare for those here illegally.
And what is missing is the political will, because too many Democrats and, sadly, too many Republicans don't want to solve this problem.
If I am elected president...
... we will secure the border...
... and we will end the illegal immigration.
I was there and I saw the debate.
I saw Ted Cruz say, "we'll take citizenship off the table, and then the bill will pass, and I'm for the bill."
The bill would involve legalization.
He can't have it both ways.
But what is particularly insulting, though, is that he is the king of saying, "you're for amnesty."
Everybody's for amnesty except for Ted Cruz.
But it's a falseness, and that's an authenticity problem -- that everybody he knows is not as perfect as him because we're all for amnesty.
I was for legalization.
I think, frankly, if you have border security, you can have legalization.
So was Ted, but now he says it wasn't so.
That's not true.
You know, John Adams famously said, "facts are are stubborn things."
The facts are are very, very simple.
When that battle was waged, my friend Senator Rubio chose to stand with Barack Obama and Harry Reid and Chuck Schumer and support amnesty.
And I stood alongside Jeff Sessions and Steve King, and we led the fight against amnesty.
And if you want to know who's telling the truth, you should look and ask people like Jeff Sessions and Steve King and Rush Limbaugh and Mark Levin, all of whom say, as Jeff Sessions said, responding to these false attacks just recently in Alabama -- he said, "if it wasn't for Ted Cruz, the Gang of Eight Rubio/Schumer bill would have passed.
But because Ted stood up and helped lead the effort, millions rose up to kill it.
Yeah, but let me respond...
You know, I like Marco.
He's very charming.
He's very smooth.
But the facts are simple.
When he ran for election in the state of Florida, he told the people of Florida, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty."
When I ran in Texas, I told the people of Texas, "if you elect me, I will lead the fight against amnesty."
We both made the identical promises.
But when we came to Washington, we made a different choice.
Marco made the choice to go the direction of the major donors -- to support amnesty because he thought it was politically advantageous.
I honored my commitments, and as president, I will honor every commitment that I make to the men and women of this country.
Megyn?
KELLY: Go ahead, Governor Christie.
I want to ask the people of the audience.
Like, I'm standing here, I -- I watched the video of Senator Cruz.
I watched the video of Senator Rubio.
I heard what they said.
And this is why you need to send someone from outside of Washington to Washington.
I feel like...
...
I feel like I need -- I feel like I need a Washington to English dictionary converter, right?
I mean, I heard what they both said, I saw it on the video.
And the fact is this is what makes a difference when you're a governor.
You can change your mind.
Ted can change his mind.
Marco can change his mind.
It's perfectly legal in this country to change your mind.
But when you're a governor, you have to admit it.
You can't hide behind parliamentary tricks.
That's the difference, and that's the kind of leader we need in the White House.
Stop the Washington bull and let's get things done.
Oh, great.
As I said before, we are a land of immigrants, but we have to be intelligent about the way that we form our immigration policies, and that's one of the reasons that I have called on us to declare war on the Islamic State because we need to reorient our immigration policies and our visa policies for people who are coming into this country because there are many people out there who want to destroy us.
Now, I recognize that the vast majority of people coming in here probably are not those kinds of people, but that's not good enough.
If you've got 10 people coming to your house and you know one of them is a terrorist, you're probably going to keep them all out.
You know, we probably have to figure out a way to make sure that we keep America safe.
Can I -- can I -- I just...
That beautiful young woman who's an entrepreneur who served in the military, first of all, is deserving of our respect for service in the military and the fact that she's an entrepreneur.
And we should be a welcoming nation.
Our identity is not based on race or ethnicity, it's based on a set of shared values.
That's American citizenship.
And Dulce Candy -- a pretty cool name, actually -- that is now an entrepreneur over Youtube is part of that American spirit, and we should celebrate it as conservatives.
That's what we believe in.
You can -- you can deal with the threat of terror and also recognize that this country should be aspirational across the board.
And I think that's the false choice...
... that's the -- that's the false choice in this whole debate about immigration.
Of course, we're going to be a nation of immigrants.
By the way, no nation on earth is more generous than America is.
Every single year close to a million people emigrate to the United States legally.
There's no nation on earth that comes close to that number.
I think the only argument is are we a sovereign country, are we not allowed to choose who comes in, when they come in and how they come in?
And that's not what's happening now.
I think the other problem is we have a legal immigration system that's outdated, it's primarily based on whether you have family members living here.
In the 21st century, it has to be more of a merit-based system, and that is why our legal immigration system is in need of modernization.
And we will always celebrate legal immigration like Dulce's great story.
And I'll tell you the endorsements that I am proud of are the over 200,000 volunteers across this country who have signed up to volunteer for our campaign.
The endorsements that I am proud of are leading conservatives like Iowa's own Congressman Steve King, who is a national co-chairman of my campaign.
The endorsements that I'm proud of are conservative leaders like Dr. James Dobson, and over 700,000 contributions nationwide, people going to our Web site, tedcruz.org.
This is a grassroots campaign and, you know, when I ran for senate in Texas, I told the people of Texas that I'm not going there to go along to get along.
Washington is broken.
And the people I have been accountable to every single day in the Senate are the 27 million Texans who I represent and I made a promise to them that I make to you today, which is, if I am elected, every single day I will do two things: tell the truth, and do what I said I would do.
Well, first of all, I've seen polls where I'm beating Hillary Clinton pretty regularly.
And I believe I can, because I have a proven record, a record of accomplishment, a record of cutting taxes, of shrinking the government, of reforming education, of challenging the status quo, eliminating career civil service protections, shrinking the government workforce by 11 percent, but leading the nation in job growth.
That's the record of accomplishment that should be taken to Hillary Clinton, who has no record of accomplishment.
So I'm confident if I win this nomination, I will aggressively go against her and beat her.
As it relates to the super PACs, I have no control over that.
And this is beanbag compared to what the Clinton hit machine is going to do to the Republican nominee.
The simple fact is, we all have a record.
It all will be scrutinized.
There's give and take.
It's called the politics.
And that's the way it is.
I'm running hard and I believe I'll be the Republican nominee and I'll be the one best suited to beat Hillary Clinton, who should not be president of the United States.
Well, I believe, and I know that if Iowa helps make me the Republican nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton.
Hillary doesn't want to run against me, but I cannot wait to run against her.
And I cannot wait to earn the opportunity to do it because she cannot be the president of the United States.
That would be a disaster for this country.
So I hope and pray and cannot wait until this state and others give me an opportunity to serve this party as its nominee because I will defeat Hillary Clinton.
Well, let me be clear about one thing, there's only one savior and it's not me.
It's Jesus Christ who came down to earth and died for our sins.
And so -- and I've always made that clear about that cover story.
As far as the polls are concerned, Iowa, on Monday night you're going to go to a caucus site and you'll be the first Americans that vote in this election.
You will be the first Americans that get to answer the fundamental question, what comes next for this country after seven disastrous years of Barack Obama?
And let me tell you what the answer better not be.
It better not be Bernie Sanders.
Bernie Sanders is a socialist.
I think Bernie Sanders is good candidate for president of Sweden.
We don't want to be Sweden.
We want to be the United States of America.
And Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton is disqualified from being the commander-in-chief of the United States.
In fact, one of her first acts as president may very well be to pardon herself because Hillary Clinton...
Hillary Clinton stored classified information on her private server.
And Hillary Clinton lied to the families of those four brave Americans who lost their life in Benghazi.
And anyone who lies to the families of Americans who have died in the service of this country can never be commander-in-chief of the United States.
Sure, because there has been three different investigations and proven that I knew nothing.
And the fact is that what I did do, what I did do from the beginning, Chris, as soon as I found out about it, I fired the people who were responsible.
And that's what you expect from a leader.
And, I'll tell you something else.
I inherited a state in New Jersey that was downtrodden, and beaten by liberal democratic policies, high taxation, high regulation.
And, this year, in 2015, New Jersey's had the best year of job growth that our state has ever had in the last 15 years.
That's because we've put conservative policies in place.
And, I'll tell you one other thing, you know why the Republican party will want to take a chance on me?
Because they know that Hillary Clinton will never be prosecuted by this justice department, and they're going to want to put a former federal prosecutor on the stage to prosecute her next September.
And, there is no one on this stage better prepared to prosecute the case against Hillary Clinton than I am.
I will be ready.
I will take her on, and when I take her on I guarantee you one thing, she will never get within 10 miles of the White House.
The days for the Clintons in public housing are over.
No.
You know, Chris, here's what happened with Medicaid in my state.
We took the growth of Medicaid from over 10 percent in my second budget to 2.5 percent, without cutting off one person or cutting one benefit, because we -- we innovated the government.
And now mom and dad can stay in their own home, rather than being forced into a nursing home.
It was our money, and we brought them back to tend to the mentally ill. Because I don't think they ought to live in prison or live under a bridge; to treat the drug-addicted so they're not in an in-and-out-of- the-door policy out of the prisons; and to help the working poor so they don't live in emergency rooms.
How has it worked?
Well, we have treated the drug-addicted in our prisons and we released them in to the community, and our recidivism rate is less than 20 percent.
That's basically bordering on a miracle because of our great prison director.
The mentally ill?
They've been stepped on for too long in this society, and we are beginning to treat them.
In terms of my faith, look, all I say is that when I study scripture, I know that people who live in the shadows need to have a chance.
But I'm not deciding that anybody's got to make these decisions the way that I do, on the basis of what I do.
But what -- I will tell you this.
The time has come to stop ignoring the mentally ill in this country and begin to treat them and get them on their feet, along with, of course, with treating the drug-addicted.
Because we don't want them in and out -- we don't want them in and out of the prisons.
Give people a chance.
We talked about criminal justice reform.
We've enacted it in our state.
Look, the conservative message is economic growth and along with economic growth goes opportunity for everybody in America.
Everybody ought to have a chance to be able to rise to their God-given purpose.
And that is what we have done in Ohio.
We're running surpluses.
We're up 400,000 jobs.
And guess what?
The formula is working.
I'd suggest people take a look at it.
Thank you.
No, what I said, Chris, was that the law needs to be followed.
And that someone in that office has to do their job.
So if Ms. Davis wanted to step aside and get rid of her ability to be able to do that, there should be someone else in that office who it didn't violate their conscience so they could follow the law of the state of Kentucky.
I never said that Ms. Davis should either lose her job or that she had to do it.
But what I did say was that the person who came in for the license needed to get it.
And so if there's someone in that organization, and it turns out there was, who was willing to be able to do that, that's what we should do.
But just as importantly, and I agree with what John said.
You know, we all have our own individual interpretations of our faith.
And here's the problem with what's going on around the world.
The radical Islamic jihadists, what they want to do is impose their faith upon each and every one of us -- every one of us.
And the reason why this war against them is so important is that very basis of religious liberty.
They want everyone in this country to follow their religious beliefs the way they do.
They do not want us to exercise religious liberty.
That's why as commander in chief, I will take on ISIS, not only because it keeps us safe, but because it allows us to absolutely conduct our religious affairs the way we find in our heart and in our souls.
As a Catholic, that's what I want to do.
And no matter what your faith is, that's what I want you to be able to do.
Yeah, I would encourage people to go on my website, marcorubio.com, and we'll put all the facts up there so people can see it for themselves.
But you've just asked a very fundamental question about the role of faith in our country.
And I think this is an important question.
I think if you do not understand that our Judeo-Christian values are one of the reasons why America is such a special country, you don't understand our history.
You see, why are we one of the most generous people in the world -- no, the most generous people in the world?
Why do Americans contribute millions of dollars to charity?
It is not because of the tax writeoff.
It is because in this nation, we are influenced by Judeo-Christian values that teach us to care for the less fortunate, to reach out to the needy, to love our neighbor.
This is what's made our nation so special.
And you should hope that our next president is someone that is influence by their faith.
Because if your faith causes you to care for the less fortunate, it is something you want to see in your public figures.
And when I'm president, I can tell you this, my faith will not just influence the way I'll govern as president, it will influence the way I live my life.
Because in the end, my goal is not simply to live on this earth for 80 years, but to live an eternity with my creator.
And I will always allow my faith to influence everything I do.
You know, I think abortion is always wrong.
I've supported a variety of solutions, both state as well as federal.
In fact, just last week, I introduced the Life at Conception act, which would say that the 14th amendment would defend an individual even in the womb.
But I think on the broader question of religion and politics, you know, I think liberty, itself requires a virtue -- requires a virtuous people.
In fact, Washington said that democracy requires a virtuous people.
Oz Guinness, the theologian, said that liberty requires restraint but the only restraint consistent with liberty is self-restraint.
There's a lot packed into that statement.
But the bottom line is we must have virtue, we must have a religious bearing as a nation.
The government is not always going to save us and it's not always going to come from government.
But if we don't know right and wrong, I think we have lost our way.
I think we become unmoored and I think without the religious foundation that guides us all, I think we have a great risk of going horribly in the wrong direction.
Both.
No, both the federal and a state approach.
I have said that we could leave it to the states but I've also introduced a federal solution as well.
So the federal solution would be the Life at Conception act which is an act that would federalize the issue.
But I've also said for the most part, these issues would be left back to the states.
So there might be an occasion if we did overturn Roe v. Wade -- Roe v. Wade nationalized the issue.
If you had the court reverse Roe v. Wade, it would become a state issue once again.
I think it would be better the more -- the less abortions we have, so the more states that we have that made abortion illegal, the better, as far as trying to save and preserve lives.
Look, first of all, I recognize that Vladimir Putin is an opportunist and he's a bully, and we have to face him down.
And I would -- first of all, face him down in that whole region, the whole Baltic region.
I think we need to put in some armored brigades there.
We only have one or two.
We need much more than that.
We need to be doing military exercises if not only Estonia but Latvia and Lithuania.
They're terrified by the saber rattling.
I think we ought to put in our missile defense system.
I think we ought to give Ukraine offensive weapons and I think we ought to fight them on the economic basis because Putin is a one- horse country: oil and energy.
And we ought to fight them on that level.
We ought to be helping in terms of the technology for fracking, keeping the price low, quite frankly, because that's what's keeping him contained.
So, yes, I'd absolutely would go in if he attacked.
I think on Article V of NATO, we would definitely protect all of our allies.
Well, let me first describe Iran because they're not just a normal nation state.
And we have no quarrel with the Iranian people.
But the Iranian leader, their supreme leader is a radical Shia cleric who has an apocalyptic vision of the future.
He views himself not simply as the leader of Iran, but as the leader of all Muslims -- all Shia Muslims on the planet.
And they have a desire not simply to conquer the Middle East and to become the dominant power in that region, but ultimately to be able to hold America hostage.
That is why they're building an -- right now, developing long- range missiles capable of reaching the United States, and that is why there's going -- they're going to use those $100 billion to expand their conventional capabilities and to one day buy or build a nuclear weapon.
We will -- when I am president of the United States, on my first day in office, we are canceling the deal with Iran, and nations will have to make a choice.
They can do business with Iran, or they can do business with America, and I am very confident they're going to choose America before they choose the Iranian economy.
Look, we don't know what's going to happen in ten months.
And if I were president of the United States right now, I'd be lining up our allies to say that, if one crossed T or one dotted I does not occur, they are -- violate the agreement, we slap back on sanctions.
We can slap on sanctions alone, on day one, but it's not gonna be anywhere near as effective.
But the president needs to be laying the groundwork right now for the ability to slap those sanctions back on worldwide.
And I'll tell you what I'm worried about -- I'm worried about money.
You read about all the companies now that are doing business -- about to do business in Iran, and if we don't get this settled now, with other countries in the world, about sanctions, then Iran could violate that agreement, and we're the only ones putting the sanctions on.
We need to move aggressively now.
But I would say this to you, Bret.
Number one, if they violate it, we need to move against them.
And number two, if we find out they're developing a nuclear weapon and we know how to get to it, we're gonna go take it out.
That is what we have to do.
We cannot let things get farther down the road, like we did with North Korea.
That's right.
Yes.
I know, Bret.
But Bret, here's the problem.
You take a look at the -- at Belgium.
I talked to a diplomat from Belgium.
I said, "how's it going?"
He said, "we have the military in the streets right now.
We never dreamt we'd ever see it."
See, I think there is an opportunity to bring the world together.
The Turks are being threatened.
We know about the French.
We know about the Belgians.
We know about the Brits.
Everybody is under fire and under attack, and we have to stand together as an alliance.
So actually, the opportunity is there, because of the threat to all of these countries, to bring all of us together...
... and say there is something more important than money.
It is the future of the world and the future of our children and grandchildren.
That's the kind of leadership this country needs.
It has not been in effect during the administration of Barack Obama.
And that's only the beginning of the failures that they have committed, not only in the Middle East, but all over the world, including Russia and China.
Bret, let me tell you, this is another one of those places where Hillary Clinton has so much to answer for, and why she is completely unqualified to be commander in chief.
In a previous Democratic debate, Martha Raddatz, three times, asked Hillary Clinton about the failure in Libya, a policy that she took credit for, and said, "what is your measure of responsibility, Madam Secretary, for the failure in Libya?"
Three times, she refused to answer the question, because she refuses to be held accountable for anything that goes wrong.
If it had gone right, believe me, she would have been running around to be able to take credit for it.
Here's what I'd do.
This is about the bigger, broader war against ISIS.
We need to bring together our European and our Sunni Arab allies, and we need to develop a strategy together to take on ISIS every place that it is around the world, so that together, all of us can take ISIS out, destroy it, and then move on to come back to our country, protect our homeland security and make sure that the American people are safe.
As president of the United States, that is exactly what I will do.
You know, I've never really brought this up unless asked the question, but I have responded to the question.
I don't blame Hillary Clinton at all for this.
I don't think she's responsible for his behavior.
But I do think that her position as promoting women's rights and fairness to women in the workplace, that if what Bill Clinton did any CEO in our country did with an intern, with a 22-year- old, 21-year-old intern in their office, they would be fired.
They would never be hired again.
Fired, never hired again and probably shunned in their community.
And the thing is, she can't be a champion of women's rights at the same time she's got this that is always lurking out there, this type of behavior.
So it is difficult.
Yeah.
But I combine this also with the millions upon millions of dollars they've taken from regimes in the Middle East who treat women like cattle.
Well first of all, I think it's important that when we're running for the highest office in the land that we recognize that we're living in dangerous times and we have to be serious about it, that our words have consequences.
Donald Trump, for example -- I'm glad -- I mentioned his name again just if anybody was missing him...
... Mr. Trump believed that in reaction to people's fears that we should ban all Muslims.
Well, that creates an environment that's toxic in our own country.
Nobela (ph) is a rising entrepreneur.
She wants to pursue the American dream.
She's an American citizen.
She should not feel uncomfortable about her citizenship.
She's not the threat.
The threat is Islamic terrorism.
We need to focus our energies there, not these broad, blanket, kind of statements that will make it harder for us to deal with ISIS.
We need to deal with ISIS in the caliphate.
We need a strategy to destroy ISIS there.
You can't do that without the cooperation of the Muslim world because they're as threatened as we are.
So, I think it's important for us to be careful about the language we use, which is why I've been critical of Donald Trump.
Disparaging women, disparaging hispanics, that's not a sign of strength.
Making fun of disabled people...
... We're never going to win elections if we don't have a more broader unifying message.
Well, Chris, I'm glad to discuss my views on ethanol and energy.
I think God has blessed this country with enormous natural resources, and we should pursue all of the above.
We should be developing oil, and gas, and coal, and nuclear, and wind, and solar, and ethanol, and biofuels.
But, I don't believe that Washington should be picking winners and losers.
And, I think there should be no mandates, and no subsidies whatsoever.
And, indeed, my tax plan that I've introduced, it's available on our website.
It's a simple flat tax for everyone.
It'll produce enormous economic growth, and it eliminates every mandate, every subsidy, so there's no subsidies for oil and gas, no subsidies for anyone.
Now, it is true that there are a bunch of lobbyists, and a bunch of Democrats in this state spending millions of dollars trying to convince the people of Iowa that I somehow oppose ethanol.
It's not true.
I have introduced legislation that would phase out the ethanol mandate over five years, but that is in the context of having no mandates whatsoever for anyone.
And, I would not that there's a much more important government regulation to ethanol, and that's the EPA's blend wall that makes it illegal to sell mid-level blends of ethanol in gasoline.
I will...
...
Tear down the EPA's blend wall which will enable ethanol to expand its market share by up to 60%, all without mandates.
All without any government mandates whatsoever through the marketplace.
And, I'll note finally, Chris, there is a reason that Iowa's Congressman Steve King, perhaps the fiercest defender of farmers in this state, is sharing my campaign.
Because he understands that I'm committed to a fair, and level playing field for every energy source without lobbyists, and without Washington picking winners and losers.
Well, as anyone knows who's been listening to me, you know?
I'm very much against the government being involved in every aspect of our lives, you know?
We last year there was an additional 81,000 pages of government regulations.
If you stack that up it would be a three-story building.
This is absolutely absurd.
And, they've insinuated themselves into everything.
Now, as far as the renewable fuel standard is concerned, certain promises were made, certain government contracts were issued which extend all the way into the year 2022, and I believe that it's probably unfair to withdraw the rug because people have invested money.
People have invested a lot of energy into that.
But, you know, we are blessed with tremendous energy in this nation, and we need to be looking for new sources of energy.
Seventy percent of our population lives bi-coastally).
What about hydroelectric power?
We can develop that, you know?
We have so much natural gas now, and we can liquify it, and we can transfer it across the sea so we can make Europe dependent on us instead of Putin -- put him back in his little box where he belongs.
Those are the kinds of things that we ought to be doing.
And, you know, take advantage of the tremendous opportunities in energy that God has given us, not get involved in these little petty arguments.
And we can get a lot of them out if we get the government out of our lives.
Well, thanks for having me.
It's great to be back.
I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky, I miss doing eye surgery, still get to do a little bit.
Did a couple of cataract surgeries over Christmas holidays.
Got to go to Haiti last year.
I've gotten to do some incredible things.
Got to be on the floor of the Senate.
And it has been amazing to me.
But the thing that is most important to me and caused me to run for office is I'm worried about the country and how much debt we're adding.
And I am the one true fiscal conservative who will look at all spending.
And that's the only way we'll ever balance our budget.
Thank you.
You know, one of our biggest national security issues is the world looks at us some time, and we look at each other and say, why can't we solve problems?
Well, I've got news for you, we can.
We can in fact create jobs and provide job security.
We can create a situation where wages begin to rise.
We can create a situation for our children to be able to get a decent job to pay down their college debt.
We can re-assume our role in the world.
But all of this has to come together when we have a positive attitude, an optimistic approach, an ability for us to set the tune as conservatives, to invite other people in to be part of that orchestra.
You see, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I'm an optimist
Because I've seen so many things get accomplished in my lifetime.
And we can do it again together, all of us, to strengthen this country, work together.
Thank you.
On September 11, my wife was two blocks from the World Trade Center.
When those buildings came down, she was trapped in her building and I didn't hear from her over six hours.
We have three children, eight, five and one.
And I had to confront the possibility of being a single parent.
Terrorism in this country scares everyone.
And the fact is that we need a commander-in- chief who not only understands how to protect us, but feels in here what it means to face the possibility of loss.
I've faced it.
I've prosecuted terrorists.
I have made the decisions that need to be made as a governor to protect us and as president of the United States, no one will keep this country safer than I will.
We desperately need a conservative leader as president of the United States.
I have a proven record as governor of the state of Florida, as a conservative leader.
And I also have detailed plans to fix the mess in Washington, D.C.
As president I will restore and rebuild our military, restore the alliances and keep us safe.
And as our party's nominee, I will defeat Hillary Clinton in November.
I ask for your support on the caucuses come Monday night and I will make you proud as our party's nominee.
Thank you very much.
I want to thank the people of Iowa for being so welcoming to me.
Please think of our founding fathers as you listen.
We the people of the United States in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare and secure the benefits of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this constitution of the United States of America.
Folks, it's not too late.
Enough said.
The bible commands us to let our light shine on the world.
For over 200 years, America's light has been shining on the world and the world has never been the same again.
But now, that light is dimming a little, after seven years of Barack Obama.
And that's why Monday night, what will happen here in Iowa is so important.
I'm asking you for your vote.
Caucus for me on Monday night because if I am your nominee, I will unite this party and I will defeat Hillary Clinton and when I'm president, America's light will shine again and the 21 century will be a new American century.
Ninety-three hours.
The media noise will soon be over and it's now for the men and women of Iowa to decide.
Our country is in crisis.
We're worried the future of our children and we've have been burned over and over again.
The central question in this race is trust.
Who do you know will kill the terrorists, defend the constitution and repeal Obamacare?
Who do you know will stop amnesty and secure the borders?
Who do you know will defend life, marriage and religious liberty?
Examine our records, pray on it and I will be honored if you and your family will come caucus for us on Monday night.
Thank you very much.
I've been looking forward to this debate, and I want to thank Univision, the Washington Post, Facebook and Miami-Dade College, the largest college in North America for hosting us here this evening.
And tonight I am looking forward to the opportunity to discuss how we knock down the barriers that stand in the way of people getting ahead and staying ahead, starting with the economic ones.
My focus is on more good paying jobs with rising incomes for families and how we prevent corporations from taking jobs out of our country by imposing an exit tax, making them pay back any tax breaks they've gotten.
But we also need to be having a positive agenda for manufacturing.
for small businesses and entrepreneurs, for more clean energy jobs.
And I also look forward to discussing comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship that will be one of my priorities in my first 100 days as president.
And I will also be talking about education, every child deserves a good teacher and a good school.
And so thank you for having us, and I look forward to the debate.
Thank you -- thank you all very much.
I'm running for president of the United States because given the crises facing our country, it is just too late for establishment politics and establishment economics.
Together we're going to have to overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision.
Billionaires and Wall Street should not be buying elections.
And here in Miami...
... here in Miami as much as any city in America, we know that we have got to combat climate change, transform our energy system, and leave this planet in a way that is healthy and habitable for our kids and our grandchildren.
Well, look, I won one of the contests and lost another close one.
I am continuing to work hard for every single vote across our country.
I was pleased that I got 100,000 more votes last night than my opponent and more delegates.
So this is a marathon, and it's a marathon that can only be carried out by the kind of inclusive campaign that I'm running, a campaign that reaches out to everybody, a campaign that offers real positive solutions to the problems that we face, a campaign that is based on how together we can make progress, because I am a progressive who likes to get things done.
So I'm excited about the upcoming contests, including right here in Florida.
And we'll continue to work as hard as I can to earn the vote of every single voter.
Well, you know, when we began this campaign, I was 3% in the polls.
I was probably 60 or 70 points behind the Secretary.
We have come a long way in 10 months.
We have won...
... including Michigan last night, which some people,considered one of the major political upsets in modern American history.
We have won nine state primaries and caucuses.
And I believe that our message of the need for people to stand up and tell corporate America and Wall Street that they cannot have it all is resonating across this country.
And I think in the coming weeks and months, we are going to continue to do extremely well, win a number of these primaries, and convince superdelegates that Bernie Sanders is the strongest candidate to defeat Donald Trump.
Well, Jorge, there's a lot of questions in there.
And I'm going to give the same answer I've been giving for many months.
It wasn't the best choice.
I made a mistake.
But here's the cut to the chase facts.
I did not send or receive any emails marked classified at the time.
What you are talking about is retroactive classification.
And the reason that happens is when somebody asks or when you are asked to make information public, I asked all my emails to be made public.
Then all the rest of the government gets to weigh in.
And I think that what we have got here is a case of overclassification.
I am not concerned about it.
I am not worried about it and no Democrat or American should be either.
There was no permission to be asked.
It had been done by my predecessors.
It was permitted.
Oh, for goodness -- that's not going to happen.
I'm not even answering that question.
There is a process under way, and that process will take its course.
Today in America, the middle class is disappearing.
We have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, climate change threatens the whole planet, 47 million people live in poverty.
I'm going to focus on the issues facing the working families of this country.
That process specifically.
Karen, I'm going to follow my friend Senator Sanders model here.
If I'm so fortunate enough to be the Democratic nominee, there will be a lot of time to talk about him.
I was the first one to call him out.
I called him out when he was calling Mexicans rapists.
When he was engaging in rhetoric that I found deeply offensive.
I said basta (ph), and I am pleased that others... (APPLAUSE)
Others are also joining in making clear that his rhetoric, his demagoguery, his trafficking in prejudice and paranoia has no place in our political system.
Especially from somebody running for president who couldn't decide whether or not to disavow the Ku Klux Klan and David Duke.
So people can draw their own conclusions about him.
I will just end by saying this.
You don't make America great by getting rid of everything that made America great.
I think it's un-American.
I think what he has promoted is not at all in keeping with American values, Karen.
And I am going to take every opportunity to criticize him, to raise those issues.
I'm not going to engage in the kind of language that he uses.
I think we can make the case against him if he is the nominee, by pointing out what he has said.
What he claims to believe in The values he's promoting and I think that's a better way for the American people to draw their conclusions.
This is what I think.
I think that the American people are never going to elect a president who insults Mexicans, who insults Muslims, who insults women, who insults African-Americans.
And let us not forget that several years ago, Trump was in the middle of the so- called birther movement, trying to delegitimize the president of the United States of America.
You know, I find it very interesting, Karen, my dad was born in Poland.
I know a little bit about the immigrant experience.
Nobody has ever asked me for my birth certificate.
Maybe it has something to do with the color of my skin.
And I am very pleased -- I am very pleased that I think in the last national poll that I saw, we were running 18 points ahead of Donald Trump.
In 2003, I sponsored the DREAMER (sic) Act.
I sponsored I think in every Congress after that.
I have been consistent and committed to comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
I think our best chance was in 2007, when Ted Kennedy led the charge on comprehensive immigration reform.
We have Republican support.
We had a president willing to sign it.
I voted for that bill.
Senator Sanders voted against it.
Just think, imagine where we would be today is we had achieved comprehensive immigration reform nine years ago.
Imagine how much more secure families would be in our country, no longer fearing the deportation of a loved one; no longer fearing that they would be found out.
So I am staunchly in favor of comprehensive immigration reform and have been so over the course of my public career.
And if wages are going down, I don't know why we need millions of people to be coming into this country as guestworkers who will work for lower wages than American workers and drive wages down even lower than they are right now.
Well, you have guestworker programs that have been described by the Southern Poverty Law Center, one of the important institutions in this country who studies these issues, as guestworkers programs akin to slavery, where people came in.
They were cheated.
They were abused.
They were humiliated.
And if they stood up for their rights, they would be thrown out of the country.
Of course, that type of (inaudible) leads to a race to the bottom for all of our people.
And I worked very hard on that issue.
And of course, I supported the 2013 immigration reform bill.
And what I believe right now is not only that we need comprehensive immigration reform, if the Congress does not do its job, as president of the United States I will use the executive powers of that office to do what has to be done, to do what President Obama did, and expand on that.
Well, we do the best -- we don't know.
And I should also say with regard to that 2007 immigration bill, as you may know, LULAC, the major Hispanic organization in his country, also opposed that bill as did many other Latino organizations.
But to your point, we have to do the best we can.
I applaud President Obama for his efforts on DAPA and DACA.
And I think we have got to expand those efforts.
If I could...
(APPLAUSE) You know, I think it's very hard to make the case that Ted Kennedy, Barack Obama, me, La Raza, United Farmworkers, Dolores Huerta, leaders of the Latino community, would have supported a bill that actually promoted modern slavery.
That was one of the many excuses used not to vote for the 2007 bill.
And I will go back to what I said.
If we had been able to get that passed, we would be so much further along now.
I'm committed to defending DAPA and DACA.
I'm committed to going even further to get more people deferred action, to go as far as I can under the law.
And I am committed to introducing comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship in the first 100 days of my presidency.
In Vermont, by the way, I worked with officials and undocumented people in Vermont do have the ability to get driver's license.
When we talk about immigration, the secretary will remember that one of the great tragedies, human tragedies of recent years is children came from Honduras where there's probably more violence than almost any place in this country, and they came into this country.
That's a difference.
Let me -- let me respond again because the misrepresentation can't go unanswered here.
First of all, that is something that is not fair about what I said.
I did say we needed to be very concerned about little children coming to this country -- on their own, very often -- many of them not making it.
And when they got here, they needed, as I have argued for, legal counsel, due process, to make a decision.
We need to end private detention, we need to end family detention.
So I think when you were running for the Senate, you made it clear by your vote, Senator, that you were going to stand with the Republicans.
When you got to the Senate in 2007, one of the first things you did was vote against Ted Kennedy's immigration reform which he'd been working on for years before you ever arrived.
Let me respond -- let me respond to that.
You know, Ted Kennedy was a very close friend of mine, and I served on the committee he chaired, the Health, Education, Labor Committee.
And Ted Kennedy was kind enough to allow me to hold a hearing in 2008, I believe, in Congress, dealing with the plight of undocumented tomato pickers in Immokalee, Florida.
And I went there on my own.
Wasn't an issue really for the state of Vermont to expose the horrendous working conditions and the semi slavery, if you like, that those workers lived under.
And the result of that hearing and the work that many, many people did was to significantly improve the wages and working conditions of those workers.
Great.
Thank you.
RAMOS (through translator): So this is the moment of talking about deportations.
We're going to immigrants.
SALINAS (through translator): (Inaudible) Facebook page (inaudible).
Tell us what you think of the debate in the comment section.
We will come back after the break.
RAMOS (through translator): We're back to the Democratic debate.
Secretary Clinton, the last time we talked in January, in Iowa, I asked you if you could be the next deporting chief.
And you told me, no, that you wouldn't be the next deporter in chief.
However, you refused two times to say you would not deport children.
This is what you said.
Here's what I can promise Jorge, I can promise that I will do everything possible to provide due process.
Let me say this.
I would give every person, but particularly children, due process to have their story told.
And a lot of children will, of course, have very legitimate stories under our law to be able to stay.
Yes, you can because the question you were asking me were about children seeking asylum.
And we have laws.
That was the most critical thing I said.
Under our laws.
I would like to see those laws changed.
I would like see added to them, a guaranteed counsel and other support for children.
But if you are asking about everyone who is already here, undocumented immigrants, the 11-12 million who are living here, my priorities are to deport violent criminals, terrorists, and anyone who threatens our safety.
So I do not have the same policy as the current administration does.
I think it's important that we move to our comprehensive immigration reform, but at the same time, stop the raids, stop the round-ups, stop the deporting of people who are living here doing their lives, doing their jobs, and that's my priority.
I will not deport children.
I would not deport children.
I do not want to deport family members either, Jorge.
I want to, as I said, prioritize who would be deported: violent criminals, people planning terrorist attacks, anybody who threatens us.
That's a relatively small universe.
I will not.
That's what I'm telling you.
Now I don't want -- because I'm not contradicting what I told you in the interview.
Asylum is a particular legal process.
I'd like to see it changed.
I'd like to see us give more support to people who come fleeing the terrible violence that they do.
But under our law, we have a process we have to go through which is different.
I would stop...
Yes.
Let me just say this.
I don't think that the secretary fully answered your question, and I think the proof may be in the pudding.
Honduras and that region of the world may be the most violent region in our hemisphere.
Gang lords, vicious people torturing people, doing horrible things to families.
Children fled that part of the world to try, try, try, try, maybe, to meet up with their family members in this country, taking a route that was horrific, trying to start a new life.
Secretary Clinton did not support those children coming into this country.
I did.
Now I happen to agree with President Obama on many, many issues.
I think he has done a great job as president of the United States.
He is wrong on this issue of deportation.
I disagree with him on that.
So to answer your question, no, I will not deport children from the United States of America.
I can make that promise.
This is why I go back to that 2007 vote because if we had been successful then, a lot of the issues we are still discussing today would be in the rear-view mirror.
I want us to be able to achieve comprehensive immigration reform if I'm so fortunate enough to be president.
And we do have to take a look at asylum laws.
When I was secretary of state, I worked to try to support many different approaches to ending the violence in Central America.
I was there meeting with leaders, security leaders, and others.
And I think the Congress should support the president's request to fund programs that would protect people and change the culture of criminality and violence in Central America, helping people be able to stay safely in their homes and countries.
Let me just conclude by saying that United Farm Workers considered that bill in their words the last best hope for farm workers and immigrants.
They have proven to be right in the succeeding years.
I only hope that we can put together a coalition to pass comprehensive immigration reform in the next Congress.
It's...
So look, I think the goal here is to elect a Democratic Senate, elect a Democratic president and get to work immediately to get comprehensive immigration reform.
I'm sorry?
Of course not.
What the secretary is doing tonight and has done very often is take large pieces of legislation and take pieces out of it.
No, I do not support vigilantes, and that is a horrific statement, an unfair statement to make.
I will stand (inaudible) of my career, political career fighting for workers, fighting for the poorest people in this country.
Madame Secretary, I will match my record against yours any day of the week.
(APPLAUSE)
Well, let's do that.
Let's talk about that.
Let's talk about that.
Let's talk about the auto bailout because I think it's important for people to understand what happened.
In December of 2008, we were both in the Senate, there was a vote on a free-standing bill to rescue the auto industry.
We both voted for it.
was the right vote.
Unfortunately, it did not succeed.
The Republicans marshalled the votes against it.
A month later, in January, a new piece of legislation was offered that contained the money that would be used for the auto rescue.
Then President-elect Obama -- before he'd even been sworn in -- sent word to all of us that he really hoped we would support it.
He was still in the Senate, I was still in the Senate.
And I voted for it.
It was a hard vote.
I'll tell you, it was a hard vote.
A lot of the votes you make are hard votes.
Now, Senator Sanders voted against it.
That's his perfect right to vote against it.
But if everyone had voted as he voted...
Yeah, let me...
... we would not have rescued the auto industry.
Let me -- let's -- so that everybody knows, the bill that Secretary Clinton is talking about, that is -- that was the bailout of the recklessness, irresponsibility and illegal behavior of Wall Street.
It was the Wall Street bailout.
And I find it interesting that when Secretary Clinton, who was the former senator of New York, of course, when she defended her vote, she said, well, it's going to help the big banks in New York.
Those are my constituents.
And then you go to Detroit and suddenly this legislation helps the automobile workers.
There was an article just yesterday...
...former senators said, no, this wasn't the automobile bailout.
It was the bailout of Wall Street.
Well, I think both of us, both Senator Sanders and I, voted numerous times to enhance border security along our border.
We increased the number of border security agents.
We did vote for money to build a fence, a pedestrian fence in some place, a vehicle fence in other places.
The Republicans, the opponents no longer have an argument.
And certainly, we hear a lot coming from the Republican side that is absolutely out of touch with reality.
We raised money through the congressional appropriations process.
We enhanced the border security.
That part of the work is done.
Everybody that I know has looked at it said, okay, we have a secure border.
There's no need for this rhetoric and demagoguery that's still --is carried out on the Republican side.
You've run out of excuses.
Let's move to comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
And I think that makes a very strong argument in favor of doing it.
It's a big difference.
First of all, as I understand him, he's talking about a very tall wall.
Right?
A beautiful tall wall.
The most beautiful tall wall, better than the Great Wall of China, that would run the entire border.
That he would somehow magically get the Mexican government to pay for.
And, you know, it's just fantasy.
And in fact, if he cared to know anything about what members of Congress, like the senator and I have done, where it was necessary, we did support some fencing.
Where it was necessary, we did add border patrol agents.
We have done what by any fair estimate would have to conclude is a good job, quote, "securing the border".
So let's get about the business of comprehensive immigration reform.
Let me just say...
I think the secretary and I mostly, I think, agree on this issue.
Look, in this country, immigration reform is a very hot debate.
It's divided the country.
But I would hope very much, that as we have that debate, we do not, as Donald Trump and others have done, resort to racism and xenophobia and bigotry.
This idea of suddenly, one day or maybe a night, rounding up 11 million people and taking them outside of this country is a vulgar, absurd idea that I would hope very few people in America support.
Well, I absolutely support that.
At the heart of my immigration policy and I should say that the New York times editorial board called my immigration policy the most progressive and the strongest of any candidate running.
But to answer your question, the essence of what we are trying to do is to unite families, not to divide families.
The idea that a mother is living here and her children are on the other side of the border is wrong and immoral.
A number of months ago, I talked to a young man who was serving in the United States military and while he was serving in the military, his wife was deported.
That is beyond comprehension and policies that should not be allowed to exist.
So, ma'am, I will do everything that I can to unite your family.
Your children deserve to be with their mother.
First of all, please know how brave I think you are, coming here with your children to tell your story.
This is an incredible act of courage that I'm not sure many people really understand.
And I want you to know that in the work that I've done and the many families that I've met, I have heard similar stories like yours, where your husband is deported.
Your children's father is gone.
You are doing your very best to support your children.
But it is time to bring families together.
And I don't think there's any doubt that we must do more to let stories like yours be heard more widely so that more Americans know what the human cost of these policies are.
And I will do everything I can to prevent other families from facing what you are facing.
And I will do everything I can to pass laws that would bring families back together.
And I hope that your children are all either citizens born in this country or eligible for the programs that President Obama has put into place, DACA and DAPA, because I will defend those and I will absolutely protect your children, yourself, and try to bring your family back together.
Well, first Karen, obviously it's painful for me to hear that.
And I do take responsibility.
When you're in public life, even if you believe that it's not an opinion that you think is fair or founded, you do have to take responsibility.
And I do.
And I also have, you know, very much committed to the best of my ability my energies and efforts to helping people.
That's something that I care deeply about.
And I will continue to do that, to demonstrate by my past actions and my present levels of commitment and plans that people can count on me.
That is certainly what happened to me in New York, where people got to know me.
They saw me in action.
And they did.
Look, I have said before and it won't surprise anybody to hear me say it, this is not easy for me.
It's not easy to do what I think is right, to help people, to even the odds, to hear a story like the woman's story we just heard.
And to know that I can make a difference and I want to in every way possible.
I am not a natural politician, in case you haven't noticed, like my husband or President Obama.
So I have a view that I just have to do the best I can, get the results I can, make a difference in people's lives, and hope that people see that I'm fighting for them and that I can improve conditions economically and other ways that will benefit them and their families.
Well, what I have said is that when you get I believe it is $225,000 for giving a speech, and she gave several speeches to Goldman Sachs, one of the Wall Street financial institutions whose greed and illegal behavior helped destroy our economy a number of years ago, when you get paid $225,000, that means that that speech must have been an extraordinarily wonderful speech.
I would think that a speech so great that you got paid so much money for, you would like to share it with the American people.
So I think she should release the transcript.
As the secretary said, well, she will do it if other people do it.
I will do it.
I didn't give any speeches, there is no transcript.
That is exactly what releasing the transcripts will tell us.
This I do know.
This I do know.
There is a reason why Wall Street has provided $15 million just in the last reporting period to the secretary's super PAC.
Now, the secretary says it doesn't influence her.
Well, that's what every politician says who gets money from special interests.
The question that the American people have to determine - you know, can you say that Wall Street is greedy, they're fraudulent, but they're not dumb.
Why are they making those kind of large contributions?
Well, let me respond, as I have numerous times during this campaign.
You know, I have a public record and you can go look it up.
I went to the Orlando area during the '08 campaign to make the same case, visiting with families who had been defrauded by mortgages, these subprime mortgages that put them and their homes at risk.
I called for those changes.
I have been on the record and now I do have the toughest, most comprehensive plan to go after Wall Street.
And not just the big banks, all the other financial interests that pose a threat to our economy.
And I have said no bank is too big to fail and no executive is too powerful to jail, and I will use the powers that have now been passed by the Congress, by President Obama, who, incidentally, took a lot of money from Wall Street, which didn't stop him from signing into law the toughest regulations on the financial industry since the Great Depression.
Now, what I believe is in fact that we have a corrupt campaign finance system.
And it's not just Wall Street, it's the drug companies, (INAUDIBLE) received millions of dollars from the fossil fuel industry.
We've got to overturn Citizens United and end that.
Wait a minute.
I just think it's worth pointing out that the leaders of the fossil fuel industry, the Koch brothers, have just paid to put up an ad praising Senator Sanders.
There are a lot of different powerful interests in Washington.
I've taken them on.
I took on the drug companies.
I took on the insurance companies.
Before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare, and I worked really hard...
... to get comprehensive health care reform, and they beat me.
So I have a long record of standing up to special interests.
And I will continue to do so.
There is nobody in the United States Congress who has taken on the Koch brothers, who want to destroy Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and virtually every federal program passed since the 1930s more that Bernie Sanders.
And I am proud that the gentleman who is head of Goldman Sachs, now, he didn't give me $225,000 for speaking fees, he said I was dangerous and he's right.
I am dangerous for Wall Street.
Well, if I can say...
... you know though, I guess Senator Sanders, that the Koch brothers, as you said, are sensible with how they use their money.
And I agree with you.
They stand for things that I find abhorrent, that would be bad for our country, bad for our future.
But they did just put up a little video praising you for being the only Democrat who stood with the Republicans to try to eliminate the Export/Import Bank, which has helped hundreds and hundreds of companies here in Florida be able to export their goods and employ more Floridians.
So from my perspective, you sided with the Koch brothers.
Let me respond.
The Export/Import Bank is often called the bank of Boeing, because Boeing corporation gets 40 percent of the revenue.
It is corporate welfare and yes, I oppose corporate welfare.
You know, look.
I feel a great deal of sympathy for the families of the four brave Americans that we lost at Benghazi.
And I certainly can't even imagine the grief that she has for losing her son, but she's wrong.
She's absolutely wrong.
I and everybody in the administration, all the people she named, the president, the vice president, Susan Rice, we were scrambling to get information that was changing, literally by the hour.
And when we had information, we made it public.
But then sometimes we had to go back and say we have new information that contradicts it.
So I testified for 11 hours.
Anybody who watched that and listened to it knows that I answered every question that I was asked and when it was over the Republicans had to admit they didn't learn anything.
Why?
Because there had already been one independent investigation.
There had been seven or eight congressional investigations, mostly led by Republicans who all reached the same conclusions, that there were lessons to be learned.
And this is not the first time we lost Americans in a terrorist attack.
We lost 3,000 people on 9/11.
We lost Americans serving in embassies in Tanzania and Kenya when my husband was president.
We lost 250 Americans, both military and civilian, when Ronald Reagan was president in Beirut.
And at no other time were those tragedies were they politicized
Instead people said, let's learn the lessons and save lives.
And that's when I did.
Jorge, that makes my point.
At the time I e-mailed with my daughter, a terrorist group had taken credit for the attacks on our facility in Benghazi.
Within 16, 18 hours, they rescinded taking credit.
They did it all on social media.
And the video did play a role.
We have captured one of the lead terrorists and he admits it was both a terrorist attack and it was influenced by the video.
This was fog of war.
This was complicated.
The most effective, comprehensive reports and studies demonstrate that.
Look, as I said in the beginning, I deeply regret that we lost four Americans.
And I of course sympathize with members of the families who are still, you know, very much grieving.
And I wish that there could be an easy answer at the time, but we learned a lot, and the intelligence kept...
... improving, and we learned enough to say what we think happened at Benghazi.
Well, I'm not going to comment on the Benghazi tragedy, but I will say this.
A series of articles in the New York Times talked about Secretary Clinton's role in urging the administration to go forward with regime change, getting rid of Gadhafi in Libya.
Gadhafi was a brutal dictator, there's no question.
But one of the differences between the secretary and I is I'm not quite so aggressive with regard to regime change.
I voted against the war in Iraq because I had a fear of what would happen the day after.
And Secretary Clinton talks about Henry Kissinger...
... winning the praise of Henry Kissinger, I don't want Henry Kissinger's praise at all.
Well, you've got to look at what the career is about.
And this is a career that has stood up to every special interest in this country.
I don't take money from Wall Street.
I demand that we break up the large financial institutions.
I don't take money from the pharmaceutical industry because I believe they are ripping off the American people and charging us the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs.
I don't take money from the fossil fuel industry because they are destroying -- they are destroying this planet through their emissions of carbon and creating the terrible climate change that we are seeing.
So I think it is true that I have served in Congress for many years.
But if you check my record, it is a record of strength for the environment, for workers, for seniors.
Unlike the secretary, I believe we should expand Social Security benefits.
So I think the point is look at the record, and it's a record that I am proud of.
Well, I certainly know what all Americans need, and that is more jobs, with rising incomes.
It's something that I have worked on for many years.
It's why I've laid down the only really comprehensive plan about how to create more good jobs.
And there are several things that need to be addressed.
We do have to do more infrastructure spending.
That will put many Americans to work.
It's a good job that gets you on the ladder to the middle class.
We need to improve the conditions for manufacturing in our country and punish those companies that want to export jobs.
We need them to be incentivized to create jobs right here in America.
We also do have to combat climate change, and no state has more at stake in that than Florida.
And the best way to do that is not only enforcing the laws we have, but also the clean power plan that President Obama has put forth that I support, and the Paris agreement that I think was a huge step forward in the world, that Senator Sanders said was too weak, but I helped to lay the groundwork for that.
But we need more clean energy jobs and we have to do more to help small businesses.
You know, the fastest-growing segment of small businesses are minority and women-owned small business, and we need to help businesses get started.
The very distinguished congresswoman from New York who's been on the Small Business Committee, Congresswoman Velasquez, knows exactly what we need to be doing to create more small businesses.
We do need to raise the minimum wage and we have to guarantee equal pay for women.
That will help Latinos as well as every other working person in our country.
Everything I just said will improve the living conditions, and I've spent a lot of time and effort talking to and mostly listening to Latinos.
Jobs are the number one issue, with rising incomes.
Close behind is education.
Every child deserves a good teacher in a good school, regardless of the zip code that they live in.
Following behind that is health care and how important it is to continue to build on the Affordable Care Act and provide access to health care.
And then there are a number of other issues -- comprehensive immigration reform certainly at the top.
OK, let me answer that question because it's a huge question.
And one of the -- huge, I know.
If you look at Latino kids between 17 and 20 who graduated high school, 36 percent of them are unemployed or underemployed...
Oh wait a minute.
Can I have...
... a little bit of time here please?
African-American kids are unemployed or underemployed to the tune of 51 percent.
That's why I co-sponsored legislation to put $5 billion into a jobs program to put our kids to work because I would rather invest in education and jobs than jails and incarceration.
We have got to raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour.
The United States has got to join the rest of the industrialized world in guaranteeing health care to all people as a right.
We need to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.
And when we do that, under my plan, we create 13 million decent-paying jobs.
No, I do not propose free college tuition, I proposed free tuition at public colleges and universities.
Yes I did.
No.
What they would -- look, this is what I believe, Jorge.
This is the year 2016.
Fifty years ago a high school degree got you a good job in the economy.
Today, in many respects, a college degree is the equivalent of a high school degree.
We have got to go beyond first grade to 12th grade when we talk about public education.
So I do believe we should make public colleges and universities tuition-free, and I don't believe we should punish millions of young and not-so-young people with outrageous levels of student debt.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
They can go -- I don't think they will, but Donald Trump's kids -- Donald Trump's kids can go to public school right now, I think Secretary Clinton is talking about making community colleges free, they can go to those things.
The point is we are going to get to Donald Trump by raising the taxes on the top 1 percent and our millionaires and billionaires.
But all of our people, in my view, regardless of income, should have a right to get a higher education.
I want children in the third grade to know that if they study hard, no matter what the income of their families, my family didn't have any income, my parents didn't go to college, they didn't have good income.
I want every kid to know if you do your school work, study hard, yes, you will be able to get a college education.
Well, congratulations on your education.
And also on your plans for the future.
And here's what I will do.
We're going to refinance everyone's existing student debt, 40 million Americans have student debt.
And you can refinance your house to get a lower interest rate.
You can refinance your car.
Corporations can refinance their debt.
Under my plan, you will be able to also lower your debt, move into a program to pay it back as a percentage of your income and more than that, my plan for debt-free tuition at public colleges and universities will eventually eliminate any student debt.
But for people who have it, I'm going to put a date certain that after a certain number of years, you no longer have to pay anything.
The government has to quit making money off of lending money to young people to get their education.
I think what Secretary Clinton just said is absolutely right.
I think I said it many months before she said it, but thanks for copying a very good idea.
Now the question though, you know, I have been criticized a lot for thinking big.
You know, that's for believing that we can do great things as a nation.
One of the things we should not be doing obviously, is punishing people for doing what we want them to do and that is to get an education.
But here is the point.
My program, making public colleges and universities tuition free, allowing people with debt to refinance at the lowest possible interest rates is a fairly expensive proposal, about $70 billion a year.
You know how I'm going to pay for it?
I'm going to pay for it by imposing a tax on Wall Street speculation.
We bailed out -- Secretary Clinton was one of those who voted to bail out Wall Street.
Now I think it's time for Wall Street to help the working families of this country.
Well, I'm going to respond to that, because I think it's a very important issue.
But let me say this.
Senator Sanders has talked about free college for everybody.
He's talked about universal, single payer health care for everybody.
And yet, when you ask questions, as many of us have and more importantly, independent experts, it's very hard to get answers.
And a lot of the answers say that this is going to be much more expensive than anything Senator Sanders is admitting to.
This is going to increase the federal government dramatically.
And, you know, my dad used to say, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
All right.
Let me respond to this.
And we deserve answers about how these programs will actually work and how they would be paid for.
SANDERS: I want you all to think.
What Secretary Clinton is saying is that the United States should continue to be the only major country on earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all of our people.
I think if the rest of the world can do it, we can.
And by the way, not only are we being ripped off by the drug companies, we are spending far, far more per capita on health care than any other major country on earth.
You may not think the American people are prepared to stand up to the insurance companies or the drug companies.
I think they are.
And I think we can pass...
This is a very important point in this debate, because I do believe in universal coverage.
Remember, I fought for it 25 years ago.
I believe in it.
And I know that thanks the Affordable Care Act, we are now 90 percent of universal coverage.
I will build on the Affordable Care Act.
I will take it further.
I will reduce the cost.
\
But I just respectfully disagree.
Between the Republicans trying to repeal the first chance we've ever had to get to universal health care, and Senator Sanders wanting to throw us into a contentious debate over single-payer, I think the smart approach is build on and protect the Affordable Care Act.
Make it work.
Reduce the cost.
I'm on the committee, I know a little bit about this, I'm on the committee, Health, Education, Labor Committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act.
And it has done a number of good things.
But when Secretary Clinton says, well, 90 percent of the people have insurance, yes, not really.
Many of you may have insurance, but you have outrageously high deductibles and co-payments.
Elderly people are cutting their pills in half.
I do believe that we should do what every other major country on earth does, and I think when the American people stand up and fight back, yes, we can have it, a Medicare for all health care system.
Well, first of all, Karen, when you have Republican candidates for president and in Congress telling you that climate change is a hoax, which is Donald Trump and other candidates' position, what they are really saying is, we don't have the guts to take on the fossil fuel industry.
What candidates are saying is if we stand up to the fossil fuel industry, and transform our energy system away from coal and oil and gas to energy efficiency and wind and solar and geothermal and other sustainable technologies, you know what happens to that Republican who listens to the scientists?
On that day, that Republican loses his campaign funding from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry.
The way I would move forward in every other area.
And what we are doing in this campaign is fighting not only to become president, but I'm the only candidate who says no president, not Bernie Sanders, can do it all.
You know what we need, Karen?
We need a political revolution in this country.
And when millions of people stand up and tell the fossil fuel industry that their profits, their short-term profits are less significant than the long-term health of this planet, we will win.
That is the way change always takes place.
Well, Karen, first of all, I was proud a number of mayors from Florida campaign for me in South Carolina.
I had a chance to talk to some of them about this issue.
It is a really serious one.
And there isn't much time left to do several things that I will move quickly to do.
You can see already what's happening in Miami, particularly in Miami Beach with tides rising.
So we do have to invest in resilience and mitigation while we are trying to cut emissions and make up for the fact that this is clearly man-made and man-aggravated.
And there are certain things that the president has done through executive action that I will absolutely support.
All the Republican say they will, if they're elected, heaven forbid, repeal all of those executive actions.
I will maintain them and act on them.
We need to implement all of the president's executive actions and quickly move to make a bridge from coal to natural gas to clean energy.
That is the way we will keep the lights on while we are transitioning to a clean energy future.
And when I talk about resilience, I think that is an area we can get Republican support on.
Let me be very clear...
Because -- because after all -- excuse me.
I have introduced...
Excuse me, excuse me.
Did you ask me to speak?
After all, there are...
Madam Secretary, when he asked me to speak...
You know, you don't -- you know, you don't have to do much more than look at rising insurance rates.
You know, most of the property in Florida will be at risk in the next 50 years.
I think I can get a bipartisan consensus on resilience and then implementing the president's orders until we frankly win back enough seats, take back the Senate, and get back to bipartisan... (CROSSTALK)
(inaudible) have as much time as she just had.
Thank you.
Let's be clear.
You're looking at the senator who introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation in the history of the United States Senate.
Now, I hope that Secretary Clinton would join me if we are serious about climate change, about imposing a tax on carbon on the fossil fuel industry and making massive investments in energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And by the way, while we are on the subject of energy, I hope you'll join me in ending fracking in the United States of America.
Well, Karen, I do agree that we have to end the revolving door.
I strongly support a piece of legislation from Senator Tammy Baldwin that would do just that.
And I will be looking for people who will put the interests of consumers first, who will do more to try to make sure Main Street flourishes.
And I will very much reach out and ask for advice as to who should be appointed, including to Senator Warren and many of my other former colleagues in the Senate.
But I think it's important also to look at what we want to accomplish.
You know, in the debates we've had -- maybe this is the seventh or so -- Senator Sanders is always criticizing the two recent Democratic presidents -- President Clinton and President Obama.
And that's fine, but I wish he would criticize and join me in criticizing George W. Bush, who I think wrecked the economy and created the conditions for the great recession.
You know, at the end of the '90s, we had 23 million new jobs.
Incomes went up for everybody.
We were talking earlier about what needs to be done for Latinos and African Americans.
Well, we were doing it by the end of the '90s.
Median family income went up 17 percent.
For minorities, it went up even more.
Along came the Republicans, trickle-down economics -- one of the worst ideas since snake oil -- was put back into place.
And we ended up with the great recession.
President Obama had to rescue the economy.
And I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for doing that.
Now, let me say this.
I gather Secretary Clinton hasn't listened to too many of my speeches.
Or followed my work in the Congress as very few people stood up to George W. Bush whether it was the war in Iraq or any other of his policies.
Now, when we talk about the policies of the 1990s, I worked closely and supported President Clinton.
And obviously, I have worked very closely in supporting President Obama, who has taken our economy a very long way from where Bush left us.
But when you go back to the 1990s, let's remember, that's when Wall Street deregulation took place.
That's when disastrous trade policies took place.
Yes, good things happened, but some dangerous mistakes were made that laid the groundwork for some of the problems we're having with a disappearing middle class today.
Well, first of all, I supported the president's moves.
I helped to implement some of them leading up to the announcements when I was secretary of state, expanding travel opportunities, remittances.
And I certainly told the president toward the end of my time that I hoped he would be able to move toward diplomatic relations and to make more of an impact by building up the relationship.
And there are no better ambassadors for freedom, democracy and economic opportunity than Cuban Americans.
So the more that we can have that kind of movement back and forth, the more likely we are to be able to move Cuba toward greater freedom, greater respect for rights.
You know, I'm looking forward to following the president's trip.
I do think meeting with dissidents, meeting with people who have been voices, tribunes of freedom and opportunity is important.
The Cuban people deserve to have their human rights respected and upheld, they deserve to be able to move towards democracy where they pick their own leads.
And I think both Castros have to be considered authoritarian and dictatorial because they are not freely chosen by the people that are in Cuba.
I hope someday there will be leaders who are chosen by the Cuban people, and I hope that democracy will be deeply rooted in Cuban soil and that the people of Cuba will have every opportunity to fulfill their own dreams in their own country.
That is my hope.
Look, I understand that not everybody in Florida or in the United States will agree with me, but I think we have got to end the embargo.
I believe that we should move towards full and normalized political relations with Cuba.
I think at the end of the day, it will be a good thing for the Cuban people.
It will enable them, I think when they see people coming into their country from the United States, move in a more democratic direction, which is what I want to see.
So right -- I'm sorry.
Sure.
SALINAS: In 1985, you praised the Sandinista government and you said that Daniel Ortega was an impressive guy.
This is what you said about Fidel Castro.
Let's listen.
You may recall way back in, when was it, 1961, they invaded Cuba, and everybody was totally convinced that Castro was the worst guy in the world.
All the Cuban people were going to rise up in rebellion against Fidel Castro.
They forgot that he educated their kids, gave them health care, totally transformed their society.
Well, let me just answer that.
What that was about was saying that the United States was wrong to try to invade Cuba, that the United States was wrong trying to support people to overthrow the Nicaraguan government, that the United States was wrong trying to overthrow in 1954, the government -- democratically elected government of Guatemala.
I think the United States should be working with governments around the world, not get involved in regime change.
And all of these actions, by the way, in Latin America, brought forth a lot of very strong anti-American sentiments.
That's what that was about.
I'm sorry.
Please say that...
The key issue here was whether the United States should go around overthrowing small Latin American countries.
I think that that was a mistake...
...both in Nicaragua and Cuba.
Look, let's look at the facts here.
Cuba is, of course, an authoritarian undemocratic country, and I hope very much as soon as possible it becomes a democratic country.
But on the other hand...
They have made some progress in education.
I think by restoring full diplomatic relations with Cuba, it will result in significant improvements to the lives of Cubans and it will help the United States and our business community invest.
Absolutely, although it happens before I am president if I am so fortunate to be.
I have been calling for months that the Congress must give authority to Puerto Rico to restructure its debts.
Just like it has enabled states and cities to restructure their debt.
And it's a grave injustice for the Congress, led by the Republicans to be refusing to enact that opportunity within the bankruptcy law.
And what we see in Puerto Rico now is a lot of suffering.
We see schools being closed, we see health care being denied and we see a thousand Puerto Rican families a month moving to the United States, mostly to Florida.
Puerto Ricans are citizen of America.
They deserve to be treated as citizens and to be given the opportunity to get back on their feet economically.
And I just want to add one thing to the question you were asking Senator Sanders.
I think in that same interview, he praised what he called the revolution of values in Cuba and talked about how people were working for the common good, not for themselves.
I just couldn't disagree more.
You know, if the values are that you oppress people, you disappear people, you imprison people or even kill people for expressing their opinions, for expressing freedom of speech, that is not the kind of revolution of values that I ever want to see anywhere.
Well, as I said earlier, I don't believe it is the business of the United States government to be overthrowing small countries around the world.
And number two, when you get to Puerto Rico, there's an issue that we have not talked about.
That little island is $73 billion in debt and the government now is paying interest rates of up to 11 percent.
And many of the bonds that they are paying off were purchased by vulture capitalists for 30 cents on the dollar.
And what I have said in talking to the leaders of Puerto Rico, we've got to bring people together.
And it's not the people of Puerto Rico, or the children or the schools.
But maybe some of these vulture capitalists who are going to have to lose a little bit of money in this process.
Well, I think this is one of the most important issues facing our country right now.
And I fully support President Obama's intention under the constitution to nominate a successor to Justice Scalia.
And I believe...
I believe no state probably understands this better than Florida.
And we should not tolerate that.
And so from my perspective, it is imperative that we put enormous pressure on the Republicans in the Senate to do their constitutional duty.
Now, obviously you look for people who are not only qualified on paper, but have a heart, have life experience, understand what these decisions mean in the lives of Americans.
And understand the balance of power that their decisions can disrupt one way or the other.
So clearly, I would look for people who believe that Roe v. Wade is settled law and that Citizens United needs to be overturned as quickly as possible.
Well, thank you very much for a lively debate.
And I appreciate greatly all the questions, especially the questions in person from the people here and those coming at us from Facebook.
It just reinforces my strong commitment to do everything I can to break down all the barriers that stand in the way of people living up to their own potential, and of our country doing the same.
So I am going to take on those economic barriers.
I have a plan to create jobs and raise incomes.
I'm going to take on the education barriers that often leave too many children behind even after they have completed schooling.
I'm going to take on the healthcare barriers.
I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that we unite our country.
I will find common ground, just as I have as first lady, as senator and secretary of state.
I will also stand my ground wherever matters of principles are at stake.
I would be honored to have your support in the upcoming primary on Tuesday, and hope to have the great honor of serving you as your president.
This has been a wonderful debate, but time being limited, some of the most important issues facing our country have not been asked.
Is it acceptable that Wall Street and billionaires are spending hundreds of millions of dollars trying to buy elections?
Is that democracy or this that oligarchy?
Which is why I believe we've got to overturn Citizens United and move to public funding of elections.
Is it right that in the greatest, wealthiest country in the history of the world, so many of our young people can't even afford to go to college or leave school deeply in debt, in the wealthiest country in the history of the world?
If we stand up, fight back, we can do a lot better.
That's why I'm running for president.
I fully understand.
I fully understand.
I cannot say.
I have to respect the person that, if it's not me, the person that wins, if I do win, and I'm leading by quite a bit, that's what I want to do.
I can totally make that pledge.
If I'm the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent.
But -- and I am discussing it with everybody, but I'm, you know, talking about a lot of leverage.
We want to win, and we will win.
But I want to win as the Republican.
I want to run as the Republican nominee.
This is what's wrong!
I mean, this is what's wrong.
He buys and sells politicians of all stripes, he's already...
Hey, look, look!
He's already hedging his bet on the Clintons, OK?
So if he doesn't run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent...
...but I'd say that he's already hedging his bets because he's used to buying politicians.
Well, I've given him plenty of money.
I will not make the pledge at this time.
Well, I could take issue with -- with all of those things, but we don't have time.
But I will say, we have a debate here tonight, and we will have an opportunity to explore those areas, and I'm looking very much forward to demonstrating that, in fact, the thing that is probably most important is having a brain, and to be able to figure things out and learn things very rapidly.
So, you know, experience comes from a large number of different arenas, and America became a great nation early on not because it was flooded with politicians, but because it was flooded with people who understood the value of personal responsibility, hard work, creativity, innovation, and that's what will get us on the right track now, as well.
Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and it's great to be here tonight.
Let me begin by saying this: I'm not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate.
I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition.
Here's what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past.
It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.
This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed.
You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesn't even own a single store?
And these changes have been disruptive.
They have changed people's lives.
The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they either don't pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands that as our nominee.
If I'm our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck?
I was raised paycheck to paycheck.
How is she -- how is she gonna lecture me -- how is she gonna lecture me about student loans?
I owed over $100,000 just four years ago.
If I'm our nominee, we will be the party of the future.
Absolutely, I do, and I'm gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win.
I'm gonna have to earn this.
Maybe the barrier -- the bar's even higher for me.
That's fine.
I've got a record in Florida.
I'm proud of my dad, and I'm certainly proud of my brother.
In Florida, they called me Jeb, because I earned it.
We were -- we had -- we balanced every budget.
We went from $1 billion of reserves to $9 billion of reserves.
We were one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
They keep -- they called me Veto Corleone.
Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line-items in the budget.
I am my own man.
I governed as a conservative, and I govern effectively.
We left the state better off because I applied conservative principles in a purple state the right way, and people rose up.
Only Rosie O'Donnell.
Thank you.
Yes, I'm sure it was.
I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct.
I've been challenged by so many people, and I don't frankly have time for total political correctness.
And to be honest with you, this country doesn't have time either.
This country is in big trouble.
We don't win anymore.
We lose to China.
We lose to Mexico both in trade and at the border.
We lose to everybody.
And frankly, what I say, and oftentimes it's fun, it's kidding.
We have a good time.
What I say is what I say.
And honestly Megyn, if you don't like it, I'm sorry.
I've been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be, based on the way you have treated me.
But I wouldn't do that.
But you know what, we -- we need strength, we need energy, we need quickness and we need brain in this country to turn it around.
That, I can tell you right now.
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth.
If you're looking for someone to go to Washington, to go along to get along, to get -- to agree with the career politicians in both parties who get in bed with the lobbyists and special interests, then I ain't your guy.
There is a reason...
.... that we have $18 trillion in debt.
Because as conservatives, as Republicans, we keep winning elections.
We got a Republican House, we've got a Republican Senate, and we don't have leaders who honor their commitments.
I will always tell the truth and do what I said I would do.
If you think it's bad now, you should've seen it when I got there.
The fact is -- the fact is, in the eight years before I became governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
In the eight years before I became governor, spending was increased 56 percent.
And in the eight years before I become governor, taxes and fees were raised at the state level 115 times.
In the eight years before I became Governor, spending was increased 56 percent, and in the eight years before I became governor, there was zero net private sector job growth in New Jersey.
Zero.
For eight years.
So, what did we do?
And, what's happened since?
A hundred ninety-two thousand private sector jobs in the five and a half years I've been governor.
We have a lot of work to do in New Jersey, but I am darn proud we've brought our state back.
Well, I'm pro-life, I've always been pro-life, and I've got a position that I think is consistent with many Americans out there in that...
...in that I believe that that is an unborn child that's in need of protection out there, and I've said many a time that that unborn child can be protected, and there are many other alternatives that can also protect the life of that mother.
That's been consistently proven.
...I've got a position that's in line with everyday America.
Chris, I disagree with the idea that the real issue is a constitutional amendment.
That's a long and difficult process.
I've actually taken the position that's bolder than that.
A lot of people are talking about defunding planned parenthood, as if that's a huge game changer.
I think it's time to do something even more bold.
I think the next president ought to invoke the Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments to the constitution now that we clearly know that that baby inside the mother's womb is a person at the moment of conception.
The reason we know that it is is because of the DNA schedule that we now have clear scientific evidence on.
And, this notion that we just continue to ignore the personhood of the individual is a violation of that unborn child's Fifth and 14th Amendment rights for due process and equal protection under the law.
It's time that we recognize the Supreme Court is not the supreme being, and we change the policy to be pro-life and protect children instead of rip up their body parts and sell them like they're parts to a Buick.
First of all, only ISIS is responsible for the terrorism.
Only ISIS is responsible for the depravity.
But, we do have to examine, how are we going to defeat ISIS?
I've got a proposal.
I'm the leading voice in America for not arming the allies of ISIS.
I've been fighting amidst a lot of opposition from both Hillary Clinton, as well as some Republicans who wanted to send arms to the allies of ISIS.
ISIS rides around in a billion dollars worth of U.S. Humvees.
It's a disgrace.
We've got to stop -- we shouldn't fund our enemies, for goodness sakes.
So, we didn't create ISIS -- ISIS created themselves, but we will stop them, and one of the ways we stop them is by not funding them, and not arming them.
Well, first of all...
-- first of all, Megyn, you should know that -- that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times.
Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what?
To treat the mentally ill.
Ten thousand of them sit in our prisons.
It costs $22,500 a year...
-- to keep them in prison.
I'd rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life.
Secondly, we are rehabbing the drug-addicted.
Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems.
We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is -- is threatening their very families.
So we're treating them and getting them on their feet.
And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where they're sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet.
And do you know what?
Everybody has a right to their God-given purpose.
-- and we've grown 350,000 jobs.
I do.
I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option.
They want to provide for their family.
But we need to control our border.
It's not -- it's our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in.
So I -- I've written a book about this and yet this week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that -- that really mirrored what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay.
We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security.
We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country.
It is ridiculous and tragic...
-- that people are dying because of the fact that -- that local governments are not following the federal law.
There's much to do.
And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president -- and I hope to be that president -- will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.
And there should be a path to earned legal status...
-- for those that are here.
Not -- not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time.
So, if it weren't for me, you wouldn't even be talking about illegal immigration, Chris.
You wouldn't even be talking about it.
Except the reporters, because they're a very dishonest lot, generally speaking, in the world of politics, they didn't cover my statement the way I said it.
The fact is, since then, many killings,murders, crime, drugs pouring across the border, are money going out and the drugs coming in.
And I said we need to build a wall, and it has to be built quickly.
And I don't mind having a big beautiful door in that wall so that people can come into this country legally.
But we need, Jeb, to build a wall, we need to keep illegals out.
Border Patrol, I was at the border last week.
Border Patrol, people that I deal with, that I talk to, they say this is what's happening.
Because our leaders are stupid.
Our politicians are stupid.
And the Mexican government is much smarter, much sharper, much more cunning.
They don't want to take care of them.
Why should they when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for them?
And that's what is happening whether you like it or not.
Chris, first of all, I was just saying to Chris Christie, they say we're outspoken, we need to take lessons from Donald Trump if we're really going to learn it.
Here is the thing about Donald Trump.
Donald Trump is hitting a nerve in this country.
He is.
He's hitting a nerve.
People are frustrated.
They're fed up.
They don't think the government is working for them.
And for people who want to just tune him out, they're making a mistake.
Hasn't been done since.
But the point is that we all have solutions.
Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built.
They want to see an end to illegal immigration.
They want to see it, and we all do.
But we all have different ways of getting there.
And you're going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are.
Let me set the record straight on a couple of things.
The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico.
They're coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras.
Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority.
I also believe we need a fence.
The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too.
And that's why you need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration.
But I agree with what Governor Kasich just said.
People are frustrated.
We feel like despite our generosity, we're being taken advantage of.
And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates.
The people that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United States.
And they've paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they can't get in.
And they're wondering, maybe they should come illegally.
And so these are important issues, and we should address it.
It's a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise we're going to keep talking about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years.
Chris, I actually said that on your show earlier this year.
I acknowledged that.
I said I actually listened to the American people.
And I think people across America want a leader who's actually going to listen to them.
I talked to border state governors and other elected officials.
I look at how this president, particularly through last November, messed up the immigration system in this country.
Most importantly, I listened to the people of America.
I believe we need to secure the border.
I've been to the border with Governor Abbott in Texas and others, seeing the problems that they have there.
There is international criminal organizations penetrating our southern based borders, and we need to do something about it.
Secure the border, enforce the law, no amnesty, and go forward with the legal immigration system that gives priority to American working families and wages.
Chris, absolutely yes.
And not only will I support it--
-- I have authored Kate's law in the United States Senate and filed that legislation.
I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kate's law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kate's law.
You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid.
It's not a question of stupidity.
It's that they don't want to enforce the immigration laws.
That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty.
A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty.
I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumers gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate.
Yes, I do.
And I'll tell you why: because I'm the only person on this stage who's actually filed applications under the Patriot Act, who has gone before the federal -- the Foreign Intelligence Service court, who has prosecuted and investigated and jailed terrorists in this country after September 11th.
This is not theoretical to me.
I went to the funerals.
We lost friends of ours in the Trade Center that day.
My own wife was two blocks from the Trade Center that day, at her office, having gone through it that morning.
When you actually have to be responsible for doing this, you can do it, and we did it, for seven years in my office, respecting civil liberties and protecting the homeland.
And I will make no apologies, ever, for protecting the lives and the safety of the American people.
We have to give more tools to our folks to be able to do that, not fewer, and then trust those people and oversee them to do it the right way.
As president, that is exactly what I'll do.
Megyn, may I respond?
May I respond?
I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from innocent Americans.
And -- and, Megyn?
Megyn, that's a -- that, you know, that's a completely ridiculous answer.
I want to collect more records from terrorists, but less records from other people.
How are you supposed to know, Megyn?
Use the Fourth Amendment!
What are you supposed to...
Use the Fourth Amendment!
...how are you supposed to -- no, I'll tell you how you, look...
Get a warrant!
Let me tell you something, you go...
Get a judge to sign the warrant!
When you -- you know, senator...
Listen, senator, you know, when you're sitting in a subcommittee, just blowing hot air about this, you can say things like that.
When you're responsible for protecting the lives of the American people, then what you need to do is to make sure...
See, here's the problem.
CHRISTIE: ...is to make sure that you use the system (ph) the way it's supposed to work.
Here's the problem, governor.
Here's the problem, governor.
You fundamentally misunderstand the Bill of Rights.
Every time you did a case, you got a warrant from a judge.
I'm talking about searches without warrants...
There is no...
...indiscriminately, of all Americans' records, and that's what I fought to end.
I don't trust President Obama with our records.
I know you gave him a big hug, and if you want to give him a big hug again, go right ahead.
And you know -- you know, Senator Paul?
Senator Paul, you know, the hugs that I remember are the hugs that I gave to the families who lost their people on September 11th.
Those are the hugs I remember, and those had nothing to do -- and those had nothing to do with politics, unlike what you're doing by cutting speeches on the floor of the Senate, then putting them on the Internet within half an hour to raise money for your campaign...
...and while still putting our country at risk.
You know what, Megyn, can I...
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth.
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism".
When I asked General Dempsey, the chairman of the joint chiefs, what would be required militarily to destroy ISIS, he said there is no military solution.
We need to change the conditions on the ground so that young men are not in poverty and susceptible to radicalization.
That, with all due respect, is nonsense.
It's the same answer the State Department gave that we need to give them jobs.
What we need is a commander in chief that makes -- clear, if you join ISIS, if you wage jihad on America, then you are signing your death warrant.
Megyn, of course it's an ideological problem, that's one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they don't use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans.
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist.
He said, "Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitions--"
We need a president that shows the courage that Egypt's President al-Sisi, a Muslim, when he called out the radical Islamic terrorists who are threatening the world.
...I remember...
...I remember, Megyn.
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when -- when we invaded, it was a mistake.
I wouldn't have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it -- I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them.
Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do.
And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their wife, of their husband did not die in vain.
So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that.
Here's the lesson that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq.
He left, and when he left Al Qaida was done for.
ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana.
To honor the people that died, we need to -- we need to --- stop the -- Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.
What about then (ph), we need to focus on the ones we have.
You look at Egypt, probably the best relationship we've had in Israel, at least in my lifetime, incredibly important.
You look at the Saudis -- in fact, earlier this year, I met with Saudi leaders, and leaders from the United Arab Emirates, and I asked them what's the greatest challenge in the world today?
Set aside the Iran deal.
They said it's the disengagement of America.
We are leading from behind under the Obama-Clinton doctrine -- America's a great country.
We need to stand up and start leading again, and we need to have allies, not just in Israel, but throughout the Persian Gulf.
Well, thank you, Megyn, I wasn't sure I was going to get to talk again.
Alright.
You know, what we do in order to get the information that we need is our business, and I wouldn't necessarily be broadcasting what we're going to do.
We've gotten into this -- this mindset of fighting politically correct wars.
There is no such thing as a politically correct war.
The left, of course, will say Carson doesn't believe in the Geneva Convention, Carson doesn't believe in fighting stupid wars.
And -- and what we have to remember is we want to utilize the tremendous intellect that we have in the military to win wars.
And I've talked to a lot of the generals, a lot of our advanced people.
And believe me, if we gave them the mission, which is what the commander-in-chief does, they would be able to carry it out.
And if we don't tie their hands behind their back, they will do it...
-- extremely effectively.
A complete disaster, yes.
Correct.
And the Middle East became totally destabilized.
So I just want to say.
As far as single payer, it works in Canada.
It works incredibly well in Scotland.
It could have worked in a different age, which is the age you're talking about here.
What I'd like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state.
I have a big company with thousands and thousands of employees.
And if I'm negotiating in New York or in New Jersey or in California, I have like one bidder.
Nobody can bid.
You know why?
Because the insurance companies are making a fortune because they have control of the politicians, of course, with the exception of the politicians on this stage.
But they have total control of the politicians.
They're making a fortune.
Get rid of the artificial lines and you will have...
-- yourself great plans.
And then we have to take care of the people that can't take care of themselves.
And I will do that through a different system.
I've got a news flash...
News flash, the Republican Party's been fighting against a single-payer system...
-- for a decade.
So I think you're on the wrong side of this if you're still arguing for a single-payer system.
I'm not -- I'm not are -- I don't think you heard me.
You're having a hard time tonight.
You'd better believe it.
If I ask them, if I need them, you know, most of the people on this stage I've given to, just so you understand, a lot of money.
Many of them.
Not much.
But I...
-- Donald, if you...
Good.
Sounds good.
Sounds good to me, Governor.
I will tell you that our system is broken.
I gave to many people, before this, before two months ago, I was a businessman.
I give to everybody.
When they call, I give.
And do you know what?
When I need something from them two years later, three years later, I call them, they are there for me.
And that's a broken system.
Well, I'll tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding.
You know why?
She didn't have a choice because I gave.
I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good.
I didn't know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world.
It was.
But...
Just one second on this, though.
We -- we spent a lot of time talking about Hillary Clinton and ---and pitting us back and forth.
Let's be clear, we should be talking about Hillary Clinton on that last subject, because everywhere in the world that Hillary Clinton touched is more messed up today than before she and the president (INAUDIBLE).
It's true.
It's not too big to shrink.
But the problem is we have a Wall Street-to-Washington access of power that has controlled the political climate.
The donor class feeds the political class who does the dance that the donor class wants.
And the result is federal government keeps getting bigger.
Every person on this stage who has been a governor will tell that you the biggest fight they had was not the other party.
Wasn't even the legislature.
It was the federal government, who continually put mandates on the states that we had to suck up and pay for.
And the fact is there are a lot of things happening at the federal level that are absolutely beyond the jurisdiction of the Constitution.
This is power that should be shifted back to the states, whether it's the EPA, there is no role at the federal level for the Department of Education.
And I'm still one who says that we can get rid of the Internal Revenue Service if we would pass the fair tax, which is a tax on consumption rather than a tax on people's income, and move power back where the founders believed it should have been all along.
What I agree with is that we need a significantly changed taxation system.
And the one that I've advocated is based on tithing, because I think God is a pretty fair guy.
And he said, you know, if you give me a tithe, it doesn't matter how much you make.
If you've had a bumper crop, you don't owe me triple tithes.
And if you've had no crops at all, you don't owe me no tithes.
So there must be something inherently fair about that.
And that's why I've advocated a proportional tax system.
You make $10 billion, you pay a billion.
You make $10, you pay one.
And everybody gets treated the same way.
And you get rid of the deductions, you get rid of all the loopholes, and...
And I have a lot more to say about it.
No, I don't.
And I don't believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content.
It is clearly a state responsibility.
I'm for higher standards...
... measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion.
And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country.
And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go.
And Florida's low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country.
That's what I'm for.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform.
It is critically important in the 21st Century.
We do need curriculum reform.
And it should happen at the state and local level.
That is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed.
Here's the problem with Common Core.
The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied.
They will not stop with it being a suggestion.
They will turn it into a mandate.
In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it.
And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states.
He is definitely my friend.
And I think the states ought to create these standards.
And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine.
Just make sure your standards are high.
If we are going to compete in this world we're in today, there is no possible way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything.
Children are going to suffer and families' hearts are going to be broken that their kids won't be able to get a job in the 21st Century.
Let's start off with my father being a mailman.
So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom having trouble, you know, making ends meet.
But I think she will come in a narrow way.
The nominee of this party, if they're going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth.
Which is balancing budgets.
You know, we were talking about it.
People were saying, could we do it?
I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus.
Economic growth is the key.
Economic growth is the key to everything.
But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who don't seem to ever think that they get a fair deal.
And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they don't have a chance to move up.
You know, America is a miracle country.
And we have to restore the sense that the Amiracle (ph) will apply to you.
Each and every one of the people in this country who's watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again.
It will be and can be done.
If Hillary is the candidate, which I doubt, that would be a dream come true.
But you know, the fact of the matter is, she is the epitome of the progressive -- the secular progressive movement.
And she counts on the fact that people are uninformed, the Alinsky Model, taking advantage of useful idiots.
Well, I just happen to believe that people are not stupid.
(APPLAUSE) And the way I will come at it is to educate people, help people to actually understand that it is that progressive movement that is causing them the problems.
You know, you look at the -- the national debt and how it's being driven up.
If I was trying to destroy this country, what I would do is find a way to drive wedges between all the people, drive the debt to an unsustainable level, and then step off the stage as a world leader and let our enemies increase while we decreased our capacity as a military person.
And that's what she's doing.
We've done it 27 times since World War II.
I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours.
The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you can't do anything about is so dangerous for our country.
There's 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected.
6.5 million people are working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time.
We've created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is we're not growing fast, income is not growing.
A four percent growth strategy means you fix a convoluted tax code.
You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers.
You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesn't suppress wages and kill jobs.
You embrace the energy revolution in our country.
This president and Hillary Clinton, who can't even say she's for the X.L.
pipeline even after she's left?
Give me a break.
Of course we're for it.
We should be for these things to create high sustained economic growth.
And frankly, fixing our immigration system and turning it into an economic driver is part of this as well.
We can do this.
Well, the voters in Wisconsin elected me last year for the third time because they wanted someone who aimed high, not aimed low.
You know, people like Hillary Clinton think you grow the economy by growing Washington.
One report last year showed that six of the top 10 wealthiest counties in America were in or around Washington, D.C..
I think most of us in America understand that people, not the government creates jobs.
And one of the best things we can do is get the government out of the way, repeal Obamacare, put in -- reign in all the out of control regulations, put in place and all of the above energy policy, give people the education, the skills that the need to succeed, and lower the tax rate and reform the tax code.
That's what I'll do as president, just like I did in Wisconsin.
No, he's not lying, he's just wrong.
I mean, so, there's a difference -- I'm the only guy on this stage who's put out a detailed, 12 point plan on entitlement reform and here's why -- because 71% of federal spending right now is on entitlements, and debt service, 71%.
And we have spent the last hour and five minutes talking about the other 29%, and no time on the 71%, and that makes no sense.
Now, let me tell you exactly what we would do on Social Security.
Yes, we'd raise the retirement age two years, and phase it in over 25 years, that means we'd raise it one month a year for 25 years when we're all living longer, and living better lives.
Secondly, we would needs (ph) test Social Security for those who are making over $200,000 dollars a year in retirement income, and have $4 to $5 million dollars in liquid assets saved.
They don't need that Social Security check.
Social Security is meant to be -- to make sure that no one who's worked hard, and played by the rules, and paid into the system grows old in poverty in America.
If we don't deal with this problem, it will bankrupt our country, or lead to massive tax increases, neither one that we want in this country.
Well, lets all be reminded, 60 million Americans are on Social Security, 60 million.
A third of those people depend on 90% of their income from Social Security.
Nobody in this country is on Social Security because they made the decision when they were starting work at 14 that they wanted to trust some of their money with the government.
The government took it out of their check whether they wanted them to or not.
And, if person goes to 65, they're going to spend 51 years with the government reaching into their pocket at every paycheck.
Now, here's the point, whose fault is it that the system is screwed up?
Is it the recipients, or is it the government?
It's always that the government figures that they can do this off the backs of people, many of whom are poor, and depend on that money, and I just think it's fundamentally lying to people and stealing from them, and we shouldn't be doing it.
Chris...
Yeah, sure.
And, I don't disagree with ending Congress' retirement program.
I'm a governor, I don't have a retirement program in my state, and I don't disagree with that.
But, here's the news to the American people, he's complaining about the lying and stealing.
The lying and stealing has already occurred.
The trust fund is filled with IOU's.
We can't fix the problem just by ending (ph) Congress' retirement, that's worth about, "this" much.
We need to go at the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem is that this system is broken.
It has been stolen from.
We have been lied to, and we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix...
Well, you ask about how we fund it.
Most of the income in this country is made by people at the top who get dividends and -- and capital gains.
The Fair (ph) transforms the process by which we fund Social Security and Medicare because the money paid in consumption is paid by everybody, including illegals, prostitutes, pimps, drug dealers, all the people that are freeloading off the system now.
That's why it ought to be a transformed system.
Because I have used the laws of this country just like the greatest people that you read about every day in business have used the laws of this country, the chapter laws, to do a great job for my company, for myself, for my employees, for my family, et cetera.
I have never gone bankrupt, by the way.
I have never.
But out of hundreds of deals...
Excuse me.
Excuse me.
Excuse me, what am I saying?
Out of hundreds of deals that I've done, hundreds, on four occasions I've taken advantage of the laws of this country, like other people.
I'm not going to name their names because I'm not going to embarrass, but virtually every person that you read about on the front page of the business sections, they've used the law.
The difference is, when somebody else uses those laws, nobody writes about it.
When I use it, they say, "Trump, Trump, Trump."
I have a great, great company.
I employ thousands of people.
And I'm very proud of the job I did.
Again Chris, hundreds and hundreds of deals.
Four times, I've taken advantage of the laws.
And frankly, so has everybody else in my position.
Well, I...
Let me just tell you about the lenders.
First of all, these lenders aren't babies.
These are total killers.
These are not the nice, sweet little people that you think, OK?
You know, I mean you're living in a world of the make-believe, Chris, you want to know the truth.
And I had the good sense to leave Atlantic City, which by the way, Caesars just went bankrupt.
Every company, Chris can tell you, every company virtually in Atlantic City went bankrupt.
Every company.
And let me just tell you.
I had the good sense, and I've gotten a lot of credit in the financial pages, seven years ago I left Atlantic City before it totally cratered, and I made a lot of money in Atlantic City, and I'm very proud of it.
I want to tell you that.
Very, very proud of it.
And by the way, this country right now owes $19 trillion.
And they need somebody like me to straighten out that mess.
That's a great question.
That's a great question.
First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago.
It's an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of other countries around the world.
Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, they're the ones that are struggling.
The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses.
We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy.
We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs.
And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank.
It is eviscerating small businesses and small banks.
We need to repeal and replace Dodd-Frank.
We need to make America fair again for all businesses, but especially those being run by small business owners.
I will tell you one thing: I would whole lot rather had Carly Fiorina over there doing our negotiation than John Kerry.
Maybe we would've gotten a deal where we didn't give everything away.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but hell no, to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror...
When America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation.
Yes, our allies are not perfect, but Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxy.
Well, first off, let's remember.
I still remember, as a kid, tying a yellow ribbon around a tree in front of my house during the 444 days that Iran held 52 Americans hostage.
Iran is not a place we should be doing business with.
To me, you terminate the deal on day one, you reinstate the sanctions authorized by Congress, you go to Congress and put in place even more crippling sanctions in place, and then you convince our allies to do the same.
This is not just bad with Iran, this is bad with ISIS.
It is tied together, and, once and for all, we need a leader who's gonna stand up and do something about it.
It's yet another example of the failed foreign policy of the Obama-Clinton doctrine.
I oppose the Iranian deal, and will vote against it.
I don't think that the president negotiated from a position of strength, but I don't immediately discount negotiations.
I'm a Reagan conservative.
Reagan did negotiate with the Soviets.
But you have to negotiate from a position of strength, and I think President Obama gave away too much, too early.
If there's going to be a negotiation, you're going to have to believe somehow that the Iranians are going to comply.
I asked this question to John Kerry, I said "do you believe they're trustworthy?"
and he said "No."
And I said, "well, how are we gonna get them to comply?"
I would have never released the sanctions before there was consistent evidence of compliance.
It has to do with the incredibly dangerous place that this world is gonna be as a result of a deal in which we got nothing.
We didn't even get four hostages out.
We got nothing, and Iran gets everything they want.
We said we would have anywhere, anytime negotiations and inspections, we gave that up.
We said that we would make sure that they didn't have any nuclear capacity, we gave that up.
The president can't tell you what we got.
I'll tell you what the world got.
The world has a burgeoning nuclear power that didn't, as the Soviets, say "we might defend ourselves in a war."
What the Iranians have said is, "we will wipe Israel off the face of the map, and we will bring death to America."
When someone points a gun at your head and loads it, by God, you ought to take them seriously, and we need to take that seriously.
Well, Megyn, first of all, I'm not sure that that's a correct assessment of my record.
I would go on to add that I believe all--
What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection.
In fact, I think that law already exists.
It is called the Constitution of the United States.
And let me go further.
I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not.
Whether they can speak or not.
Whether they can hire a lawyer or not.
Whether they have a birth certificate or not.
And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live.
I don't think they like me very much.
I'll tell you what.
I've evolved on many issues over the years.
And you know who else has?
Is Ronald Reagan evolved on many issues.
And I am pro-life.
And if you look at the question, I was in business.
They asked me a question as to pro-life or choice.
And I said if you let it run, that I hate the concept of abortion.
I hate the concept of abortion.
And then since then, I've very much evolved.
And what happened is friends of mine years ago were going to have a child, and it was going to be aborted.
And it wasn't aborted.
And that child today is a total superstar, a great, great child.
And I saw that.
And I saw other instances.
And I am very, very proud to say that I am pro-life.
As far as being a Republican is concerned, I come from a place, New York City, which is virtually, I mean, it is almost exclusively Democrat.
And I have really started to see some of the negatives -- as an example, and I have a lot of liking for this man, but the last number of months of his brother's administration were a catastrophe.
And unfortunately, those few months gave us President Obama.
And you can't be happy about that.
None of which is true.
No.
It's not true.
But I have said that Mr. Trump's language is divisive.
I want to win.
I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States.
We're not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day.
Dividing the country.
Saying, creating a grievance kind of environment.
We're going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message.
I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth.
Our economy grew at double the rate of the nation.
We created 1.3 million jobs.
We led the nation seven out of those eight years.
We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
I cut taxes, $19 billion.
If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up.
That's how we're going to win.
Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America.
First of all, Jeb, I am very happy that you denied that, and I appreciate that very much.
He is a true gentleman.
He really is.
One thing he did say, and I mean that.
The one thing he did say about me, however, was my tone.
And I also understand that.
But when you have people that are cutting Christians' heads off, when you have a world that the border and at so many places, that it is medieval times, we've never -- it almost has to be as bad as it ever was in terms of the violence and the horror, we don't have time for tone.
We have to go out and get the job done.
Well, look, I'm an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage.
But I've also said the court has ruled --
Wait, Megyn, the court has ruled, and I said we'll accept it.
And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay.
Because somebody doesn't think the way I do, doesn't mean that I can't care about them or can't love them.
So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them.
Because you know what?
That's what we're taught when we have strong faith.
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us.
I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and I've been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan.
So, look, I'm going to love my daughters, I'm going to love them no matter what they do.
Because, you know what, God gives me unconditional love.
I'm going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me.
Look, I don't want my marriage or my guns registered in Washington.
And if people have an opinion, it's a religious opinion that is heartly felt, obviously they should be allowed to practice that and no government should interfere with them.
One of the things, one of the things that really got to me was the thing in Houston where you had the government, the mayor actually, trying to get the sermons of ministers.
When the government tries to invade the church to enforce its own opinion on marriage, that's when it's time to resist.
Well, I think the most important thing we can do when it comes to policing -- it's something you've had a guest on who's a friend of mine Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clark, who's talked to me about this many times in the past -- it's about training.
It's about making sure that law enforcement professionals, not only in the way in to their positions but all the way through their time, have the proper training, particularly when it comes to the use of force.
And that we protect and stand up and support those men and women who are doing their jobs in law enforcement.
And for the very few that don't, that there are consequences to show that we treat everyone the same here in America.
I would be so different from what you have right now.
Like, the polar opposite.
We have a president who doesn't have a clue.
I would say he's incompetent, but I don't want to do that because that's not nice.
But if you look at the deals we make, whether it's the nuclear deal with 24 hour periods -- and by the way, before you get to the 24 hours, you have to go through a system.
You look at Sgt.
Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, a traitor, and they get five of the big, great killers leaders that they want.
We have people in Washington that don't know what they're doing.
Now...
I agree.
Now, with Iran, we're making a deal, you would say, we want him.
We want out our prisoners.
We want all these things, and we don't get anything.
We're giving them $150 billion dollars plus, they are going to be -- I'll tell you what, if Iran was a stock, you folks should go out and buy it right now because you'll quadruple -- this, what's happening in Iran, is a disgrace, and it's going to lead to destruction in large portions of the world.
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years we've seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy.
Leading from behind is a disaster.
We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger.
Radical Islam is on the rise, Iran's on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia -- General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces.
He's directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani.
The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the Joint Chiefs.
We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility...
It is worth emphasizing that Iran released our hostages in 1981 the day Ronald Reagan was sworn into office.
Well, what we have to stop and think about is that we have weakened ourselves militarily to such an extent that if affects all of our military policies.
Our generals are retiring because they don't want to be part of this, and at the same time, our enemies are increasing.
Our -- our friends can't trust us anymore.
We won't even give them offensive weapons.
You know, we turned our back on Israel, our ally.
You know, and a situation like that, of course Obama's not going to be able to do anything.
I would shore up our military first, because if you don't get the military right, nothing else is going to work.
Well first off, for the cyber attack with Russia the other day, it's sad to think right now, but probably the Russian and Chinese government know more about Hillary Clinton's e-mail server than do the members of the United States Congress.
And -- and that has put our national security at risk.
If I am president, he won't think about that.
You know, Putin believes in the old Lenin adage: you probe with bayonets.
When you find mush, you push.
When you find steel, you stop.
Under Obama and Clinton, we found a lot of mush over the last two years.
We need to have a national security that puts steel in front of our enemies.
I would send weapons to Ukraine.
I would work with NATO to put forces on the eastern border of Poland and the Baltic nations, and I would reinstate, put in place back in the missile defense system that we had in Poland and in the Czech Republic.
(APPLAUSE)
We define (ph) steel.
The military is not a social experiment.
The purpose of the military is kill people and break things.
It's not to transform the culture by trying out some ideas that some people think would make us a different country and more diverse.
The purpose is to protect America.
I'm not sure how paying for transgender surgery for soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines makes our country safer.
We've reduced the military by 25 percent...
... under President Obama.
The disaster is that we've forgotten why we have a military.
The purpose of it is to make sure that we protect every American, wherever that American is, and if an American is calling out for help, whether it's in Benghazi or at the border, then we ought to be able to answer it.
We've not done that because we've decimated our military.
We're flying B-52s.
The most recent one that was put in service was November of 1962.
A lot of the B-52s we're flying, we've only got 44 that are in service combat ready, and the fact is, most of them are older than me.
And that's pretty scary.
Well, let's be clear, I'm the only one on the stage who actually has a five-year budget that balances.
I've put pencil to paper...
... and I've said -- and I've said I would cut spending, and I've said exactly where.
Each one of my budgets has taken a meat axe to foreign aid, because I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that hate us.
I think we ought to quit sending it to countries that burn our flag.
Israel is not one of those.
But even Benjamin Netanyahu said that ultimately, they will be stronger when they're independent.
My position is exactly the same.
We shouldn't borrow money from China to send it anywhere, but why don't we start with eliminating aid to our enemies.
I still say exactly what my original opinion is.
Do you borrow money from China to send it to anyone?
Out of your surplus, you can help your allies, and Israel is a great ally.
And this is no particular animus of Israel, but what I will say, and I will say over and over again, we cannot give away money we don't have.
We do not project power from bankruptcy court.
We're borrowing a million dollars a minute.
It's got to stop somewhere.
Well, listen.
You know, if we want to deal with these issues, we have to deal with them in a way that makes sense.
I agree with what Dr. Carson said earlier.
The first thing we need to do to make America stronger is to strengthen our military, and I put out a really specific plan: no less than 500,000 active duty soldiers in the Army.
No less than 185,000 active duty marines in the Marine Corps.
Bring us to a 350 ship Navy again, and modernize the Ohio class of submarines, and bring our Air Force back to 2,600 aircraft that are ready to go.
Those are the kind of things that are going to send a clear message around the world.
Those are the things that we need to start working on immediately to make our country stronger and make it better.
Those are the things that we need to be able to be doing.
And as we move towards dealing with foreign aid, I don't disagree with Senator Paul's position that we shouldn't be funding our enemies.
But I absolutely believe that Israel is a priority to be able to fund and keep them strong and safe after eight years of this administration.
Brett, can I -- Brett, can I jump in on this one?
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures.
And God speaks through the Bible.
I'm the son of a pastor and evangelist and I've described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic.
He was not a Christian.
And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old.
And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church.
And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around.
And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me.
I would also note that the scripture tells us, "you shall know them by their fruit."
We see lots of "campaign conservatives."
But if we're going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative.
There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage.
And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career.
And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States.
Well, Megyn, my father was a mailman.
His father was a coal miner.
My mother's mother could barely speak English.
And their son today stands on this podium in the great state of Ohio not only as the governor, but a candidate for president of the United States.
I do believe in miracles.
You know, I've had a lot of elections.
But my elections are really not about campaigns.
I tell my people that these are about a movement.
And a movement to do what?
To restore common sense.
A movement to do things like provide economic growth.
And a movement not to let anybody be behind.
You know, today the country is divided.
You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities.
We've got to unite our country again, because we're stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided.
And we've got to listen to other people's voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that I've read in my lifetime, the lord is not picking us.
But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong.
He wants America to succeed.
And he wants America to lead.
And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends.
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us.
He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates.
The Democrats can't even find one.
And I believe God has blessed our country.
This country has been extraordinarily blessed.
And we have honored that blessing.
And that's why God has continued to bless us.
And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people.
Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them.
I am proud that last year we helped change the law.
We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isn't doing their job.
And it is outrageous they've only fired one person to date.
When I'm president of the United States, we're going to have a VA that cares more about our veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA.
Well, I think the bully pulpit is a wonderful place to start healing that divide.
You know, we have the purveyors of hatred who take every single incident between people of two races and try to make a race war out of it, and drive wedges into people.
And this does not need to be done.
What we need to think about instead -- you know, I was asked by an NPR reporter once, why don't I talk about race that often.
I said it's because I'm a neurosurgeon.
And she thought that was a strange response.
And you say -- I said, you see, when I take someone to the operating room, I'm actually operating on the thing that makes them who they are.
The skin doesn't make them who they are.
The hair doesn't make them who they are.
And it's time for us to move beyond that.
Because --
-- our strength as a nation comes in our unity.
We are the United States of America, not the divided states.
And those who want to divide us are trying to divide us, and we shouldn't let them do it.
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do.
I want to tell you what I've done.
I was a member of the Armed Services Committee for 18 years.
I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world.
No.
2
I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon.
We had a $5 trillion surplus and we cut taxes.
I spent ten years in the private sector, actually learning how business works.
And now I'm the governor of Ohio, and I inherited a state that was on the brink of dying.
And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.
Well, thank you, Megyn.
Listen, I was born into a middle class family in New Jersey.
My dad came home from serving in the Army after having lost his father, worked in the Breyers ice cream plant in Newark, New Jersey.
Was the first person to graduate from college.
He put himself through college at night.
My mom was a secretary.
I was appointed United States attorney on September 10, 2001.
And I spent the next seven years of my career fighting terrorism and putting terrorists in jail.
I'm a conservative, pro-life governor in a state where it is really tough to be both.
A state like New Jersey, with lots of Democrats, but still we cut taxes, we balanced budgets.
We fought the teacher's union.
This president has had weak leadership, which has led to bad choices.
We have got to stop worrying about being loved and start worrying about being respected.
And that's exactly how I'll lead our country.
I'm a different kind of Republican.
I've introduced a five-year balanced budget.
I've introduced the largest tax cut in our history.
I stood for ten and a half hours on the Senate floor to defend your right to be left alone.
But I've also gone to Chicago.
I've gone to Detroit.
I've been to Ferguson, I've been to Baltimore, because I want our party to be bigger, better and bolder, and I'm the only one that leads Hillary Clinton in five states that were won by President Obama.
I'm a different kind of Republican.
Thank you.
You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba.
They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance.
Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could.
My father was a bartender.
And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream.
It is what makes our nation different.
And I'm running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now.
I run for president because I believe that we can't just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
And that's why I'm asking for your vote.
So we can make America greater than it has ever been.
And make this century a new American century.
If I'm elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office.
The first thing I intend to do is to rescind every illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Barack Obama.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
c (APPLAUSE)
I will keep my word.
My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what it's like to lose it.
Well, I haven't said anything about me being the only one to do anything, so let me try that.
I'm the only one to separate siamese twins...
The -- the only one to operate on babies while they were still in mother's womb, the only one to take out half of a brain, although you would think, if you go to Washington, that someone had beat me to it.
But I -- but I'm very hopeful that I'm not the only onel who's willing to pick up the baton of freedom, because freedom is not free, and we must fight for it every day.
Every one of us must fight for it, because we're fighting for our children and the next generation.
It seems like this election has been a whole lot about a person who's very high in the polls, that doesn't have a clue about how to govern.
A person who has been filled with scandals, and who could not lead, and, of course, I'm talking about Hillary Clinton.
I think America...
...is in trouble, but it's not beyond repair.
But it's going to take leadership who sees the greatness of this country, and who believes that once again we can be one nation, under God.
I'll be my best to do that, and thank you for your support.
Thanks.
I'm guy with a wife and two kids, and Harley.
One article called me "aggressively normal."
I ran for governor because I was worried about my kids' future.
Then, I took on the big government union bosses, and we won.
They tried to recall me, and we won.
They target us again, and we won.
We balanced the budget, cut taxes, and turned our state around with big, bold reforms.
It wasn't too late for Wisconsin, and it's not too late for America.
That's why I ask for your vote.
Here's what I believe.
I believe we're at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world.
But Washington is holding us back.
How we tax, how we regulate.
We're not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.
We're not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation.
All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues.
Here's my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida.
We can fix these things.
We can grow economically and restore America's leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up.
I humbly ask for your vote, whenever you're gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is.
Thank you all very much.
Our country is in serious trouble.
We don't win anymore.
We don't beat China in trade.
We don't beat Japan, with their millions and millions of cars coming into this country, in trade.
We can't beat Mexico, at the border or in trade.
We can't do anything right.
Our military has to be strengthened.
Our vets have to be taken care of.
We have to end Obamacare, and we have to make our country great again, and I will do that.
Thank you.
Well, good evening.
And I want to thank the Congressional Black Caucus Institute and the people of Charleston for hosting us here on the eve of Martin Luther King Day tomorrow.
You know, I remember well when my youth minister took me to hear Dr. King.
I was a teenager.
And his moral clarity, the message that he conveyed that evening really stayed with me and helped to set me on a path to service.
I also remember that he spent the last day of his life in Memphis, fighting for dignity and higher pay for working people.
And that is our fight still.
We have to get the economy working and incomes rising for everyone, including those who have been left out and left behind.
We have to keep our communities and our country safe.
We need a president who can do all aspects of the job.
I understand that this is the hardest job in the world.
I'm prepared and ready to take it on and I hope to earn your support to be the nominee of the Democratic Party and the next president of the United States.
Thank you.
As we honor the extraordinary life of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., it's important not only that we remember what he stood for, but that we pledge to continue his vision to transform our country.
As we look out at our country today, what the American people understand is we have an economy that's rigged, that ordinary Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, 47 million people living in poverty, and almost all of the new income and wealth going to the top one percent.
And then, to make a bad situation worse, we have a corrupt campaign finance system where millionaires and billionaires are spending extraordinary amounts of money to buy elections.
This campaign is about a political revolution to not only elect the president, but to transform this country.
Thank you.
My name is Martin O'Malley, I was born the year Dr. King delivered his "I Have A Dream" speech.
And I want to thank the people of South Carolina, not only for hosting our debate here tonight, but also for what you taught all of us in the aftermath of the tragic shooting at Mother Emanuel Church.
You taught us, in fact, in keeping with Dr. King's teaching, that love would have the final word when you took down the Confederate flag from your state house; let go of the past and move forward.
Eight years ago, you brought forward a new leader in Barack Obama to save our country from the second Great Depression.
And that's what he's done.
Our country's doing better, we're creating jobs again.
But in order to make good on the promise of equal opportunity and equal justice under the law, and we have urgent work to do, and the voices of anger and fear and division that we've heard coming off of the Republican presidential podiums are pretty loud.
We need new leadership.
We need to come together as a people and build on the good things that President Obama has done.
That's why I'm running for president.
I need your help, I ask for your vote, and I look forward to moving our country forward once again.
Thank you.
Well, that's what our campaign is about.
It is thinking big.
It is understanding that in the wealthiest country in the history of the world, we should have health care for every man, woman, and child as a right that we should raise the minimum wage to at least $15 an hour; that we have got to create millions of decent- paying jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure.
So, what my first days are about is bringing America together, to end the decline of the middle class, to tell the wealthiest people in this country that yes, they are going to start paying their fair share of taxes, and that we are going to have a government that works for all of us, and not just big campaign contributors.
I would work quickly to present to the Congress my plans for creating more good jobs in manufacturing, infrastructure, clean and renewable energy, raising the minimum wage, and guaranteeing, finally, equal pay for women's work.
I would also...
I would also be presenting my plans to build on the Affordable Care Act and to improve it by decreasing the out-of-pocket costs by putting a cap on prescription drug costs; by looking for ways that we can put the prescription drug business and the health insurance company business on a more stable platform that doesn't take too much money out of the pockets of hard-working Americans.
And third, I would be working, in every way that I knew, to bring our country together.
We do have too much division, too much mean- spiritedness.
There's a lot we have to do on immigration reform, on voting rights, on campaign finance reform, but we need to do it together.
That's how we'll have the kind of country for the 21st century that we know will guarantee our children and grandchildren the kind of future they deserve.
Thank you.
First of all, I would lay out an agenda to make wages go up again for all Americans, rather than down.
Equal pay for equal work, making it easier rather than harder for people to join labor unions and bargain collectively for better wages; getting 11 million of our neighbors out of the underground shadow economy by passing comprehensive immigration reform, raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, however we can, wherever we can.
Secondly, I believe the greatest business opportunity to come to the United States of America in 100 years is climate change.
And I put forward a plan to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.
Finally -- I'm sorry, that was second, Lester.
And third and finally, we need a new agenda for America's cities.
We have not had a new agenda for America's cities since Jimmy Carter.
We need a new agenda for America cities that will invest in the talents and skills in our people, that will invest in CBVG transportation, infrastructure and transit options, and make our cities the leading edge in this move to a redesigned built clean green energy future that will employ our people.
Well, I think Secretary Clinton knows that what she says is very disingenuous.
I support what President Obama is doing in terms of trying to close the gun show loop holes and I think it should be a federal crime if people act as dormant.
(ph)
We have seen in this city a horrendous tragedy of a crazed person praying with people in the coming up and shooting nine people.
This should not be a political issue.
What we should be doing is working together.
And by the way, as a senator from a rural state that has virtually no gun control, I believe that I am in an excellent position to bring people together to fight the sensible...
What I have said, is that gun manufacturer's liability bill has some good provisions among other things, we've prohibited ammunition that would've killed cops who had protection on.
We have child safety protection work on guns in that legislation.
And what we also said, "is a small mom and pop gun shop who sells a gun legally to somebody should not be held liable if somebody does something terrible with that gun."
So what I said is, " I would re-look at it."
We are going to re- look at it and I will support stronger provisions.
One of the most horrific examples not a block from here where we had nine people murdered.
Now, I am pleased to hear that Senator Sanders has reversed his position on immunity and I look forward to him joining with those members of congress who have already introduced legislation.
This is what I would say Lester, look see, I've listened to Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders go back and forth on which of them has the most inconsistent record on gun safety legislation and I would have to agree with both of them.
They've both been inconsistent when it comes to this issue.
I'm the one candidate on this stage that actually brought people together to pass comprehensive gun safety legislation.
This is very personal to me being from Baltimore.
I will never forget one occasion visiting a little boy in Johns' Hopkins Hospital, he was getting a birthday haircut, the age of three when drug dealers turned that barbershop into a shooting gallery and that boy's head was pierced with a bullet.
And I remember visiting him, it did not kill him - I remember visiting him and his mother in Johns Hopkins Hospital.
He was getting a birthday haircut, the age of three when drug dealers turned that barbershop into a shooting gallery, and that boys head was pierced with a bullet.
And, I remember visiting him, it did not kill him.
I remember visiting him and his mother in Johns Hopkins Hospital.
In his diapers (ph) with tubes running in and out of his head, same age as my little boy.
So, after the slaughter of the kids in Connecticut last year, we brought people together.
We did pass in our state comprehensive gun safety legislation.
It did have a ban on combat assault weapons, universal background checks, and you know what?
We did not interrupt a single person's hunting season.
I've never met a self respecting deer hunter that needed an AR-15 to down a deer.
And, so...
... we're able to actually do these things.
Well, sadly it's reality, and it has been heartbreaking, and incredibly outraging to see the constant stories of young men like Walter Scott, as you said, who have been killed by police officers.
Their needs to be a concerted effort to address the systemic racism in our criminal justice system.
And, that requires a very clear, agenda for retraining police officers, looking at ways to end racial profiling, finding more ways to really bring the disparities that stalk our country into high relief.
That's the statistic.
I want people hear to think what we would be doing if it was one out of three white men, and very often, the black men are arrested, convicted and incarcerated ...
...for offensive that do not lead to the same results for white men.
So, we have a very serious problem that we can no longer ignore.
...Well, I -- look...
... Let me respond to what the secretary said.
We have a criminal justice system which is broken.
Who in America is satisfied that we have more people in jail than any other country on Earth, including China?
Disproportionately African American, and Latino.
Who is satisfied that 51% of African American young people are either unemployed, or underemployed?
Who is satisfied that millions of people have police records for possessing marijuana when the CEO's of Wall Street companies who destroyed our economy have no police records.
... We need to take a very hard look at our...
... criminal justice system, investing in jobs, and education not in jails and incarceration .
Well, let me talk about polling.
As Secretary Clinton well knows, when this campaign began she was 50 points ahead of me.
We were all of three percentage points.
Guess what?
In Iowa, New Hampshire, the race is very, very close.
Maybe we're ahead New Hampshire.
In terms of polling, guess what?
We are running ahead of Secretary Clinton.
In terms of taking on my taking on my good friend, Donald Trump, beating him by 19 points in New Hampshire, 13 points in the last national poll that we saw.
To answer your question.
When the African American community becomes familiar with my Congressional record and with our agenda, and with our views on the economy, and criminal justice -- just as the general population has become more supportive, so will the African American community, so will the Latino community.
We have the momentum, we're on a path to a victory.
Lester, I (inaudible)
Yes, let's talk about this.
When I ran for mayor in 1999, Lester, it was not because our city was doing well.
It was because we were burying over 300 young, poor black men every single year.
And that's why I ran, because, yes, black lives matter.
And we did a number of things.
We weren't able to make our city immune from setbacks as the Freddie Gray unrest and tragic death showed.
But we were able to save a lot of lives doing things that actually worked to improve police and community relations.
The truth of the matter is, we created a civilian review board.
And many of these things are in the new agenda for criminal justice reform that I've put forward.
We created a civilian review board, gave them their own detectives.
We required the reporting of discourtesy, use of excessive force, lethal force.
I repealed the possession of marijuana as a crime in our state.
I drove our incarceration rate down to 20-year lows, and drove violent crime down to 30-year lows, and became the first governor south of the Mason-Dixon line to repeal the death penalty.
I feel a responsibility every day to find things that work...
... and to do more of them to reform our criminal justice system.
I apologize for not hearing all of that question.
Yes.
Second of all, and I speak as a mayor who worked very closely and well with police officers, the vast majority of whom are honest, hard- working people trying to do a difficult job, but let us be clear.
If a police officer breaks the law, like any public official, that officer must be held accountable.
And thirdly, we have got to de-militarize our police departments so they don't look like occupying armies.
We've got to move toward community policing.
And fourthly, we have got to make our police departments look like the communities they serve in their diversity.
Well, Lester, you're right.
Everywhere I go to campaign, I'm meeting families who are affected by the drug problem that mostly is opioids and heroin now, and lives are being lost and children are being orphaned.
And I've met a lot of grandparents who are now taking care of grandchildren.
So I have tried to come out with a comprehensive approach that, number one, does tell the states that we will work with you from the federal government putting more money, about a billion dollars a year, to help states have a different approach to dealing with this epidemic.
The policing needs to change.
Police officers must be equipped with the antidote to a heroin overdose or an opioid overdose, known as Narcan.
They should be able to administer it.
So should firefighters and others.
We have to move away from treating the use of drugs as a crime and instead, move it to where it belongs, as a health issue.
And we need to divert more people from the criminal justice system into drug courts, into treatment, and recovery.
So this is the kind of approach that we should take in dealing with what is now...
... a growing epidemic.
Sure.
I agree...
I agree with everything the Secretary said, but let me just add this, there is a responsibility on the part of the pharmaceutical industry and the drug companies who are producing all of these drugs and not looking at the consequence of it.
And second of all, when we talk about addiction being a disease, the Secretary is right, what that means is we need a revolution in this country in terms of mental health treatment.
People should be able to get the treatment that they need when they need it, not two months from now, which is why I believe in universal...
... healthcare with mental health...
... a part of that.
Lester, just ten seconds.
Just 10 seconds.
All of the things...
Well, Andrea, I am absolutely committed to universal health care.
I have worked on this for a long time, people may remember that I took on the health insurance industry back in the '90s, and I didn't quit until we got the children's health insurance program that ensures eight million kids.
And I certainly respect Senator Sanders' intentions, but when you're talking about health care, the details really matter.
And therefore, we have been raising questions about the nine bills that he introduced over 20 years, as to how they would work and what would be the impact on people's health care?
He didn't like that, his campaign didn't like it either.
And tonight, he's come out with a new health care plan.
And again, we need to get into the details.
But here's what I believe, the Democratic Party and the United States worked since Harry Truman to get the Affordable Care Act passed.
We finally have a path to universal health care.
We have accomplished so much already.
I do not to want see the Republicans repeal it, and I don't to want see us start over again with a contentious debate.
I want us to defend and build on the Affordable Care Act and improve it.
OK.
Secretary -- Secretary Clinton didn't answer your question.
Because what her campaign was saying -- Bernie Sanders, who has fought for universal health care for my entire life, he wants to end Medicare, end Medicaid, end the children's health insurance program.
That is nonsense.
What a Medicare-for-all program does is finally provide in this country health care for every man, woman and child as a right.
Now, the truth is, that Frank Delano Roosevelt, Harry Truman, do you know what they believed in?
They believed that health care should be available to all of our people.
And here's the important point, we are spending far more per person on health care than the people of any other country.
My proposal, provide health care to all people, get private insurance out of health insurance, lower the cost of health care for middle class families by 5,000 bucks.
That's the vision we need to take.
But -- Senator Sanders, if I can...
You know, I have to say I'm not sure whether we're talking about the plan you just introduced tonight, or we're talking about the plan you introduced nine times in the Congress.
But the fact is, we have the Affordable Care Act.
That is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country.
And we have already seen 19 million Americans get insurance.
We have seen the end of pre-existing conditions keeping people from getting insurance.
We have seen women no longer paying more for our insurance than men.
And we have seen young people, up to the age of 26, being able to stay on their parent's policy.
But -- what if we have...
Now, there are things we can do to improve it, but to tear it up and start over again, pushing our country back into that kind of a contentious debate, I think is the wrong direction.
It is -- it is absolutely inaccurate.
I have to talk about something that's actually working in our state.
No one is tearing this up, we're going to go forward.
But with the secretary neglected to mention, not just the 29 million still have no health insurance, that even more are underinsured with huge copayments and deductibles.
The vision from FDR and Harry Truman was health care for all people as a right in a cost-effective way.
I helped write it.
Andrea -- Andrea -- Andrea.
Instead of -- Andrea, I think, instead of attacking one another on health care, we should be talking about the things that are actually working.
In our state, we have moved to an all-payer system.
With the Affordable Care Act, we now have moved all of our acute care hospitals, that driver of cost at the center, away from fee-for- service.
And actually to pay, we pay them based on how well they keep patients out of the hospital.
How well they keep their patients.
That's the future.
We need to build on the Affordable Care Act, do the things that work, and reduce costs and increase access.
And that's exactly what we are able to do based on the foundation of the Affordable Care Act -- what Governor O'Malley just said is one of the models that we will be looking at to make sure we do get costs down, we do limit a lot of the unnecessary costs that we still have in the system.
But, with all due respect, to start over again with a whole new debate is something that I think would set us back.
The Republicans just voted last week to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and thank goodness, President Obama vetoed it and saved Obamacare for the American people.
Yeah.
Yes.
Well.
Well, that's -- you might want to ask...
Andrea, let me just say this.
Let me just say that you might want to ask the governor of the state of Vermont why he could not do it.
I'm not the governor.
I'm the senator from the state of Vermont.
But second of all -- second of all...
... here is what the real point is, in terms of all of the issues you've raised -- the good questions you've raised.
You know what it all comes down to?
Do you know why we can't do what every other country -- major country on Earth is doing?
It's because we have a campaign finance system that is corrupt, we have super PACs, we have the pharmaceutical industry pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into campaign contributions and lobbying, and the private insurance companies as well.
What this is really about is not the rational way to go forward -- it's Medicare for all -- it is whether we have the guts to stand up to the private insurance companies and all of their money, and the pharmaceutical industry.
That's what this debate should be about.
Well, as someone who -- as someone who has a little bit of experience standing up to the health insurance industry, that spent, you know...
... many, many millions of dollars attacking me, and probably will so again, because of what I believe we can do building on the Affordable Care Act, I think it's important to point out that there are a lot of reasons we have the health care system we have today.
I know how much money influences the political decision-making.
That's why I'm for huge campaign finance reform.
However, we started a system that had private health insurance.
And even during the Affordable Care Act debate, there was an opportunity to vote for what was called the public option.
In other words, people could buy in to Medicare, and even when the Democrats were in charge of the Congress, we couldn't get the votes for that.
So, what I'm saying is really simple.
This has been the fight of the Democratic Party for decades.
We have the Affordable Care Act.
Let's make it work.
Let's take the models that states are doing.
Now we've got to get individual costs down.
That's what I'm planning to do.
Great question.
Well, I think it's an important point the president made in his State of the Union.
And here's what I would say.
I will go anywhere, to meet with anyone, at any time to find common ground.
That's what I did as a first lady, when I worked with both Democrats and Republicans to get the Children's Health Insurance Program, when I worked with Tom DeLay, one of the most partisan of Republicans, to reform the adoption and foster care system.
What I did, working in the Senate, where I crossed the aisle often, working even with the senator from South Carolina, Lindsey Graham, to get Tricare for national guardsmen and women.
And it's what I did as Secretary of State, on numerous occasions, and most particularly, rounding up two-thirds votes in order to pass a treaty that lowered the nuclear weapons in both Russia and the United States.
So I know it's hard, but I also know you've got to work at it every single day.
I look out here, I see a lot of my friends from the Congress.
And I know that they work at it every single day.
Because maybe you can't only find a little sliver of common ground to cooperate with somebody from the other party, but who knows.
If you're successful there, maybe you can build even more.
That's what I would do.
A couple of years ago, when we understood that veterans were not getting the quality care they needed in the timely manner, I worked with folks like John McCain and others to pass the most comprehensive veteran's health care legislation in modern history.
But let me rephrase your question because I think, in all do respect, you're expression.
In all do respect, you're missing the main point.
And the main point in the Congress, it's not the Republicans and Democrats hate each other.
That's a mythology from the media.
The real issue is that Congress is owned by big money and refuses to do what the American people want them to do.
The real issue is that in area after area, raising the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour.
The American people want it.
Rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure, creating 13 million jobs, the American people want it.
The pay equity for women, the American people want it.
Demanding that the wealthy start paying their fair share of taxes.
The American people want it.
The point is, we have to make Congress respond to the needs of the people, not big money.
I do.
HOLT: And throughout your career in politics, you've been critical of the Democratic party, you've been saying in a book you wrote, quote, "There wasn't a hell of a big difference between the the two major parties."
How would you will a general election...
Did I say that?
Because of what I believe in what I was just saying.
The Democratic party needs major reform.
To those of you in South Carolina, you know what, in Mississippi, we need a 50-state strategy so that people in South Carolina and Mississippi can get the resources that they need.
Instead of being dependent on super PACs, what we need is to be dependent on small, individual campaign contributors.
We need an agenda that speaks to the needs of working families and low-income people.
Not wealthy campaign contributors.
We need to expand what the input into the Democratic party.
I am very proud that in this campaign, we have seen an enormous amount of excitement from young people, from working people.
We have received more individual contributions than any candidate in the history of this country up to this point.
Yes, but senator you never came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor.
In fact, neither of you came to campaign for Vincent Sheheen when he was running for governor.
And I respectfully disagree.
And I respectfully disagree with my friend over here.
And that is, you are right.
All of us have denounced Trump's attempts to divide this country: the anti-Latino rhetoric, the racist rhetoric, he anti-Muslim rhetoric.
But where I disagree with you, Governor O'Malley, is I do believe we have to deal with the fundamental issues of a handful of billionaires...
I agree with that.
... who control economic and political life of this country.
I agree.
Nothing real will get happened.
Unless we have a political revolution.
Where millions of people finally stand up.
Well thanks for the question and congratulations on five million viewers on YouTube, that's quite an accomplishment.
Look, this election is mostly about the future and therefore it is of greatest urgency for young people.
I've laid out my ideas about what we can do to make college affordable; how we can help people pay off their student debts and save thousands of dollars, how we can create more good jobs because a lot of the young people that I talk with are pretty disappointed the economic prospects they feel their facing.
So making community college free, making it possible to attend a public college or university with debt free tuition, looking for ways to protect our rights especially from the concerted Republican assault; on voting rights, on women's rights, on gay rights, on civil rights, on workers rights.
And I know how much young people value their independence, their autonomy, and their rights.
So I think this is an election where we have to pull young people and older people together to have a strategy about how we're going to encourage even more American's to vote because it absolutely clear to me...
That turning over our White House to the Republicans would be bad for everybody especially young people.
Look, I have the greatest respect for Senator Sanders and for his supports and I'm going to keep working as hard as I can to reach as many people of all ages about what I will do, what the experience and the ideas that I have that I will bring to the White House and I hope to have their support when I'm the Democratic nominee.
Is that your strategy...
Well, the first difference is I don't take money from big banks.
I don't get personal speaking fees from Goldman Sachs.
What I would do...
What I would do is understand that when you have three out of the four largest banks today, bigger than they were when we bailed them out because they were too big to fail, when you have the six largest financial institutions having assets of 60 percent of the GDP of America, it is very clear to me what you have to do.
You've got to bring back the 21st century Glass-Steagall legislation and you've got to break up these huge financial institutions.
They have too much economic power and they have too much financial power over our entire economy.
If Teddy Roosevelt were alive today, the old Republican trust buster, what he would say is these guys are too powerful.
Break them up.
I believe that's what the American people to want see.
That's my view.
Well, there's no daylight on the basic premise that there should be no bank too big to fail and no individual too powerful to jail.
We agree on that.
But where we disagree is the comments that Senator Sanders has made that don't just affect me, I can take that, but he's criticized President Obama for taking donations from Wall Street, and President Obama has led our country out of the great recession.
Now, I personally believe that President Obama's work to push through the Dodd- Frank...
The Dodd-Frank bill and then to sign it was one of the most important regulatory schemes we've had since the 1930s.
So I'm going to defend Dodd- Frank and I'm going to defend President Obama for taking on Wall Street, taking on the financial industry and getting results.
OK. First of all...
Set the record right.
In 2006 when I ran for the Senate, Senator Barack Obama was kind enough to campaign for me, 2008, I did my best to see that he was elected and in 2012, I worked as hard as I could to see that he was reelected.
He and I are friends.
We've worked together on many issues.
We have some differences of opinion.
But here is the issue, Secretary touched on it, can you really reform Wall Street when they are spending millions and millions of dollars on campaign contributions and when they are providing speaker fees to individuals?
So it's easy to say, well, I'm going to do this and do that, but I have doubts when people receive huge amounts of money from Wall Street.
I am very proud, I do not have a super PAC.
I do not want Wall Street's money.
I'll rely on the middle class and working families...
... campaign contributions.
You know, I think since -- since Senator Standers followed up on this...
Your profusion of comments about your feelings towards President Obama are a little strange given what you said about him in 2011.
That's not true.
It builds on the Dodd-Frank -- yes, it is.
It builds on the Dodd-Frank, regulatory scheme...
It's just not true.
... but it goes much further, because...
Oh, come on.
... both the governor and the senator have focused only on the big banks.
Lehman Brothers, AIG, the shadow banking sector were as big a problem in what caused the Great Recession, I go after them.
And I can tell you that the hedge fund billionaires who are running ads against me right now, and Karl Rove, who started running an ad against me right now, funded by money from the financial services sector, sure thing, I'm the one they don't want to be up against.
Yes, thank you.
Yes, Lester, what Secretary Clinton just said is actually not true.
What -- I have put forward a plan that would actually put cops back on the beat of Wall Street.
I have put forward a plan that was heralded as very comprehensive and realistic.
Look, if a bank robber robs a bank and all you do is slap him on the wrist, he's just going to keep robbing banks again.
The same thing is true with people in suits.
Secretary Clinton, I have a tremendous amount of respect for you, but for you to say there's no daylight on this between the three of us is also not true.
I support reinstituting a modern version of Glass- Steagall that would include going after the shadow banks, requiring capital requirements that would force them to no longer put us on the hook for these sorts of things.
In prior debates I've heard you even bring up -- I mean, now you bring up President Obama here in South Carolina in defense of the fact of your cozy relationship with Wall Street.
In an earlier debate, I heard you bring up even the 9/11 victims to defend it.
The truth of the matter is, Secretary Clinton, you do not go as far as reining in Wall Street as I would.
And the fact of the matter is, the people of America deserve to have a president that's on their side, protecting the main street economy from excesses on Wall Street.
And we're just as vulnerable today.
And we have never used it.
That pose a risk to the financial sector.
I want to go further and add to that.
And, you know, Governor, you have raised money on Wall Street.
You raised a lot of money on Wall Street when you were the head of the Democratic Governor's Association...
Yes, but I haven't gotten a penny this year... CLINTON: And you were...
... so somebody please, go on to martinomalley.com...
Go on to martinomalley.com, send me your checks.
They're not giving me -- zero.
Yes, well, the point is that if we're going to be serious about this and not just try to score political points, we should know what's in Dodd-Frank, and what's in Dodd-Frank already gives the president the authority...
... with his regulators to make those decisions.
Let me give you an example of how corrupt -- how corrupt this system is.
Goldman Sachs recently fined $5 billion.
Goldman Sachs has given this country two secretaries of treasury, one on the Republicans, one under Democrats.
Say it.
Secretary Clinton -- and you're not the only one, so I don't mean to just point the finger at you, you've received over $600,000 in speaking fees from Goldman Sachs in one year.
I find it very strange that a major financial institution that pays $5 billion in fines for breaking the law, not one of their executives is prosecuted, while kids who smoke marijuana get a jail sentence.
So there's plenty...
If you want to...
There's plenty of problems that we all have to face together.
And the final thing I would say, we're at least having a vigorous debate about reining in Wall Street...
...
The Republicans want to give them more power, and repeal Dodd-Frank.
That's what we need to stop...
Anyone who wants to check my record in taking on Wall Street, in fighting against the deregulation of Wall Street when Wall Street put billions of dollars in lobbying, in campaign contributions to get the government off their backs.
They got the government off their backs.
Turns out that they were crooks, and they destroyed our economy.
I think it's time to put the government back on their backs.
... Yeah...
... That's true.
Good.
You're right.
I want to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, create 13 million jobs.
We do that by doing away with the absurd loophole that now allows major profitable corporations to stash their money in the Cayman (ph) Islands, and not in some years, pay a nickel in taxes.
Yes, I do.
I plead guilty.
I want every kid in this country who has the ability to be able to go to a public college, or university, tuition free.
And, by the way, I want to substantially lower student debt interest rates in this country as well.
How do I pay for it?
I pay for it through a tax on Wall Street speculation.
This country, and the middle class, bailed out Wall Street.
Now, it is Wall Street's time to help the middle class.
In fact...
(inaudible)
... we have documented, unlike Secretary Clinton, I have documented exactly how I would pay for our ambitious agenda.
Andrea...
...
The only person on this stage who has...
Well, I have actually documented every way that I'm going to pay for what I'm doing because I think the American public deserves to know.
And, you can go to my website and actually see that.
But, there are serious questions about how we're going to pay for what we want to see our country do.
And, I'm the only candidate standing here tonight who has said I will not raise taxes on the middle class.
I want to raise incomes, not taxes, and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that the wealthy pay for debt free tuition, for child care, for paid family leave.
To help us bring down student debt we're going to refinance that student debt, saving kids thousands of dollars.
Yeah, and that will also come out of the -- some of the pockets of people in the financial services industry...
But I will tell you exactly how I pay for everything I've proposed...
...
Here is the main two points...
...
I got it.
What is correct, and I'm disappointed that Secretary Clinton's campaign has made this criticism.
It's a Republican criticism.
Secretary Clinton does know a lot about healthcare, and she understands, I believe, that a medicare for all, single payer program will substantially lower the cost of healthcare for middle class families.
So, what we have got to acknowledge, and I hope the Secretary does, is we are doing away with private health insurance premiums.
So, if I save you $10,000 in private health insurance, and you pay a little bit more in taxes in total, there are huge savings in what your family is spending.
Senator, I'm the only person on this stage that's actually balanced a budget every year for 15 years.
I was mayor for eight years, I did that as well.
OK.
So, that was eight years.
Yes.
And Senator, but I actually did it during a budget down time -- I mean, during a recession.
And Andrea, the -- I had to make more cuts than any governor in the history of Maryland, but we invested more in infrastructure, more in transportation.
The things that we need to do in our country, like debt-free college in the next five years, like making universal -- like making national service a universal option in order to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three years, all these things can be done if we eliminate one entitlement we can no longer afford as a nation.
And that is the wealthy among us, those making more than a million dollars, feel that they are entitled to paying a much lower marginal tax rate than was usual for the better part of these 80 years.
And if we tax earnings from investments on money -- namely capital gains -- at the same rate as we tax sweat and hard work and toil, we can make the investments we need to make to make our country better.
I think we already are.
Younger generation understands it instinctively.
I was home in Burlington, Vermont, on Christmas Eve, the temperature was 65 degrees.
People in Vermont know what's going on.
People who did ice fishing, where their ice is no longer there on the lake understand what's going on.
I'm on both the Environmental and Energy Committees.
The debate is over.
Climate change is real.
It is already causing major problems.
And if we do not act boldly and decisively, a bad situation will become worse.
It is amazing to me, and I think we'll have agreement on this up here, that we have a major party, called the Republican Party that is so owned by the fossil fuel industry and their campaign contributions that they don't even have the courage, the decency to listen to the scientists.
It is beyond my comprehension how we can elect a president of the United States, somebody like Trump, who believes that climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese.
Bottom line is, we need to be bold and decisive, we can create millions of jobs.
We must, for the sake of our kids and grandchildren, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy.
And as president, I will fight to make that happen.
Thank you.
Lester, on this stage tonight, this Democratic stage, where we actually believe in science.
I would like to challenge and invite my colleagues here on this stage to join me in putting forward a plan to move us to a 100 percent clean, electric energy grid by 2050.
It can be done.
And let me...
I think what we've got to do is move as aggressively as we can to normalize relations with Iran.
Understanding that Iran's behavior in so many ways is something that we disagree with; their support terrorism, the anti-American rhetoric that we're hearing from of their leadership is something that is not acceptable.
On the other hand, the fact that we've managed to reach an agreement, something that I've very strongly supported that prevents Iran from getting a nuclear weapon and we did that without going to war.
And that I believe we're seeing a fall in our relationships with Iran is a very positive step.
So if your question is, do I want to see that relationship become more positive in the future?
Yes.
Can I tell that we should open an embassy in Tehran tomorrow?
No, I don't think we should.
But I think the goal has go to be as we've done with Cuba, to move in warm relations with a very powerful and important country in this world.
Well, I'm very proud of the Iran Nuclear Agreement.
I was very pleased to be part of what the president put into action when he took office.
I was responsible for getting those sanctions imposed which put the pressure on Iran.
It brought them to the negotiating table which resulted in this agreement.
And so, they have been so far, following their requirements under the agreement.
But I think we still have to carefully watch them.
We've had one good day over 36 year and I think we need more good days before we move more rapidly toward any kind of normalization.
And we have to be sure that they are truly going to implement the agreement.
And then, we have to go after them on a lot of their other bad behavior in the region which is causing enormous problems in Syria, Yemen, Iraq and elsewhere.
Absolutely not.
I have a three point plan that does not include American Ground forces.
It includes the United States leading an air coalition which is what we're doing, supporting fighters on the ground; the Iraqi Army which is beginning to show more ability, the Sunni fighters that we are now helping to reconstitute and Kurdish on both sides of the border.
I think we also have try to disrupt their supply chain of foreign fighters and foreign money and we do have to contest them in online space.
So I'm very committed to both going after ISIS but also supporting what Secretary Kerry is doing to try to move on a political diplomatic to try to begin to slow down and hopefully end the carnage in Syria which is the root of so many of the problems that we seen in the region and beyond.
As everybody you know, this is incredibly complicated and difficult issue and I applaud.
I know President Obama's been getting a lot of criticism on this.
I think he is doing the right thing.
What the nightmare is, which many of my Republican colleagues appear to want is to not have learned the lesson of Iraq.
To get American young men and women involved in perpetual warfare in the quagmire of Syria and the Middle East would be an unmitigated disaster that as president, I will do everything in my power to avoid.
Andrea...
We should -- we should learn -- we should learn from King Abdullah of Jordan, one of the few heroes in a very unheroic place.
And what Abdullah said is this is a war with a soul of Islam and that Muslim troops should be on the ground with our support and the support of other major countries.
That is how we destroy ISIS, not with American troops in perpetual warfare.
Thank you.
Andrea, governors have led us to victory in two world wars by doing what America does best, and that is by joining forces with others by acting in coalition.
And I believe that President Obama is doing the right thing in this case.
We need to learn the lessons from the past.
We do need to provide the special -- special ops advisers, we need -- do need to provide the technical support, but over the long-term, we need to develop new alliances.
We need a much more proactive national security strategy that reduces these threats before they rise to a level where it feels like we need to pull for a division of marines.
And I also want to add one other thing here.
I appreciate the fact that in our debate, we don't use the term you hear Republicans throwing around trying to look all vibrato (ph) and macho sending other kids -- kids into combat, they keep using the term boots on the ground.
A woman in Burlington, Iowa said to me, "Governor, when you're with your colleagues, please don't refer to my son who has served two tours of duty in Iraq as a pair of boots on the ground."
Now, we need to be mindful of learning the lessons of the past.
No.
I think the vacuum was created by the disastrous war in Iraq, which I vigorously opposed.
Not only did I vote against it, I helped lead the opposition.
And what happened there is yes, it's easy to get rid of a two-bit dictator like Saddam Hussein, but there wasn't the kind of thought as to what happens the day after you get him and what kind of political vacuum occurs.
And who rises up?
Groups like ISIS.
So I think that President Obama made a promise to the American people when he ran, and he said you know what, I'm going to do my best to bring American troops home.
And I supported what he did.
Our job is to train and provide military support for Muslim countries in the area who are prepared to take on ISIS.
And one point I want to make here that is not made very often, you have incredibly wealthy countries in that region, countries like Saudi Arabia, countries like Qatar.
Qatar happens to be the largest -- wealthiest country per capita in the world.
They have got to start putting in some skin in the game and not just ask the United States to do it.
Look, I think that the president's decision to go after the chemical weapons once there was a potential opportunity to build on when the Russians opened that door resulted in a very positive outcome.
We were able to get the chemical weapons out.
I know from my own experience as secretary of State that we were deeply worried about Assad's forces using chemical weapons because it would have had not only a horrific affect on people in Syria, but it could very well have affected the surrounding states, Jordan, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey.
So getting those chemical weapons out was a big deal, but...
Well -- but -- but...
I think, as commander in chief, you've got to constantly be evaluating the decisions you have to make.
I know a little bit about this, having spent many hours in the situation room, advising President Obama.
And I want to just add to something that Senator Sanders said, the United States had a very big interest in trying to help stabilize the region.
If there is any blame to be spread around, it starts with the prime minister of Iraq, who sectarianized his military, setting Shia against Sunni.
It is amplified by Assad, who has waged one of the bloodiest, most terrible attacks on his own people: 250,000-plus dead, millions fleeing.
Causing this vacuum that has been filled unfortunately, by terrorist groups, including ISIS.
So, I think we are in the midst of great turmoil in this region.
We have a proxy conflict going on between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
You know, one of the criticisms I've had of Senator Sanders is his suggestion that, you know, Iranian troops be used to try to end the war in Syria...
... and go after ISIS, which I don't think would be a good idea.
Let me just...
But overall, a lot of the forces at work in the region are ones that we cannot directly influence, but we can...
OK. Let me suggest...
Where Secretary Clinton and I think, I agree with most of what she said.
But where I think we do have an honest disagreement, is that in the incredible quagmire of Syria, where it's hard to know who's fighting who and if you give arms to this guy, it may end up in ISIS' hand the next day.
We all know that.
And we all know, no argument, the secretary is absolutely right, Assad is a butcher of his own people, man using chemical weapons against his own people.
This is beyond disgusting.
But I think in terms of our priorities in the region, our first priority must be the destruction of ISIS.
Our second priority must be getting rid of Assad, through some political settlement, working with Iran, working with Russia.
But the immediate task is to bring all interests together who want to destroy ISIS, including Russia, including Iran, including our Muslim allies to make that the major priority.
But in all of that senator and secretary, I think we're leaving out something very important here.
And that is that we still don't have the human intelligence: overt, in terms of diplomatic intelligence or covert, to understand even what the heck happens as the secondary and tertiary effects of some of these things.
We are walking through this region, Andrea, without the human intelligence that we need.
And we need to make a renewed investment as a country in bringing up a new generation of foreign service officers, and bringing up a new generation of business people and actually understanding and having relationships in these places.
So we have a better sense of what the heck happens after a dictator topples and can take action to prevent another safe haven and another iteration of terror.
Well, it would depend on what I got for it and I can tell you what we got in the first term, we got a new start treaty to reduce nuclear weapons between the United States and Russia.
We got permission to resupply our troops in Afghanistan by traveling across Russia.
We got Russia to sign on to our sanctions against Iran and other very important commitments.
So look, in diplomacy, you are always trying to see how you can figure out the interest of the other to see if there isn't some way you can advance your security and your values.
When Putin came back in the fall of 2011, it was very clear he came back with a mission.
And I began speaking out as soon as that happened because there were some fraudulent elections held, and Russians poured out into the streets to demand their freedom, and he cracked down.
And in fact, accused me of fomenting it.
So we now know that he has a mixed record to say the least and we have to figure out how to deal with him.
Well, my relationship with him, it's -- it's interesting.
It's one, I think, of respect.
We've had some very tough dealings with one another.
And I know that he's someone that you have to continuingly stand up to because, like many bullies, he is somebody who will take as much as he possibly can unless you do.
And we need to get the Europeans to be more willing to stand up, I was pleased they put sanctions on after Crimea and eastern Ukraine and the downing of the airliner, but we've got to be more united in preventing Putin from taking a more aggressive stance in Europe and the Middle East.
Thank you.
I believe whether it's a back door or a front door that the American principle of law should still hold that our federal government should have to get a warrant, whether they want to come through the back door or your front door.
And I also agree, Lester, with Benjamin Franklin, who said, no people should ever give up their privacy or their freedoms in a promise for security.
So we're a collaborative people.
We need collaborative leadership here with Silicon Valley and other bright people in my own state of Maryland and around the NSA that can actually figure this out.
But there are certain immutable principles that will not become antique things in our country so long as we defend our country and its values and its freedoms.
And one of those things is our right to be secure in our homes, and our right to expect that our federal government should have to get a warrant.
I also want to the say that while we've made some progress on the Patriot Act, I do believe that we need an adversarial court system there.
We need a public advocate.
We need to develop jurisprudence so that we can develop a body of law that protects the privacy of Americans in the information and digital age.
Yes, Lester, year in and year out I was the leader of the U.S. ...
OK.
I just wanted to add, in the previous question, I voted against the USA Patriot Act for many of the reasons that Governor O'Malley mentioned.
But it is not only the government that we have to worry about, it is private corporations.
You would all be amazed, or maybe not, about the amount of information private companies and the government has in terms of the Web sites that you access, the products that you buy, where you are this very moment.
And it is very clear to me that public policy has not caught up with the explosion of technology.
So yes, we have to work with Silicon Valley to make sure that we do not allow ISIS to transmit information...
Right.
What we have got to do there is, among other things, as I was just saying, have Silicon Valley help us to make sure that information being transmitted through the Internet or in other ways by ISIS is, in fact, discovered.
But I do believe we can do that without violating the constitutional and privacy rights of the American people.
Oh, we're breaking?
OK.
Can I get 30 seconds, too?
Can I get 50 seconds?
Well, I wanted to say, and I'll do it quickly, I was very pleased that leaders of President Obama's administration went out to Silicon Valley last week and began exactly this conversation about what we can do, consistent with privacy and security.
We need better intelligence cooperation, we need to be sure that we are getting the best intelligence that we can from friends and allies around the world.
And then, we've got to recognize our first line of defense against lone wolf attacks is among Muslim Americans.
And it is not only shameful, it is dangerous for the kinds of comments you're hearing from the Republican side.
We need to be reaching out and unifying our country against terrorist attacks and lone wolves, and working with Muslim Americans.
And Andrea -- Andrea -- Andrea...
Andrea, when can I get my 30 seconds?
That is not what I've heard.
Let me leave it at that.
Andrea, I need to talk about homeland security and preparedness.
Ever since the attacks of September 11th -- 30 seconds.
Ever since the attacks of September 11th, my colleagues, Democratic and Republican mayors, Democratic and Republican governors, made me their leader on homeland security and preparedness.
Ever since the attacks of September 11th -- 30 seconds.
Ever since the attacks of September 11th, my colleagues, Democratic and Republican mayors, Democratic and Republican governors, made me their leader on homeland security and preparedness.
Here in the homeland, unlike combating ISIL abroad, we're almost like it's -- your body's immune system.
It's able to protect your body against bad bugs, not necessarily because it outnumbers them, but it's better connected -- the fusion centers, the biosurveillance systems, better prepared first responders.
But there's another front in this battle, and it is this.
That's the political front, and if Donald Trump wants to start a registry in our country of people by faith, he can start with me, and I will sign up as one who is totally opposed to his fascist appeals that wants to vilify American Muslims.
That can do more damage to our democracy than any...
Can I get a -- can I just get a very brief response?
Very brief.
OK. One -- and I agree with what the secretary said, and what Governor O'Malley said.
But here's an issue that we also should talk about.
Unfortunately, much of that budget continues to fight the old Cold War with the Soviet Union.
Very little of that budget -- less than 10 percent -- actually goes into fighting ISIS and international terrorism.
We need to be thinking hard about making fundamental changes in the priorities of the Defense Department.
Well, it'll start at the kitchen table, we'll see how it goes from there.
And I...
...
I'm going to have the very best advisers that I can possibly have, and when it comes to the economy and what was accomplished under my husband's leadership and the '90s -- especially when it came to raising incomes for everybody and lifting more people out of poverty than at any time in recent history -- you bet.
I'm going to ask for his ideas, I'm going ask for his advice, and I'm going use him as a goodwill emissary to go around the country to find the best ideas we've got, because I do believe, as he said, everything that's wrong with America has been solved somewhere in America.
We just have to do more of it, and we have to reach out, especially into poor communities and communities of color, to give more people their own chance to get ahead.
Great ideas, Governor O'Malley, Secretary Clinton, but here's the truth.
If you have an administration stacked with Wall Street appointees, it ain't going to accomplish very much.
So here's a promise that I make -- and I mentioned a moment ago how corrupt the system is -- Goldman Sachs, paying a $5 billion fine, gives this country, in recent history, a Republican secretary of treasury, a Democratic secretary of treasury.
Here's a promise.
If elected president, Goldman Sachs is not going to have -- bring forth a secretary of treasury for a Sanders administration.
I was asked a question.
You know, one of the things, Andrea, and I -- that question annoys me.
I cannot walk down the street -- Secretary Clinton knows this -- without being told how much I have to attack secretary Clinton, want to get me on the front pages of the paper, I'd make some vicious attack.
I have avoided doing that.
Trying to run an issue-oriented campaign.
I was asked a question.
Well -- then if I don't answer it, then there's another front page, so it's yes (ph).
And I mean this seriously.
You know that.
We've been through this.
Yes, his behavior was deplorable.
Have I ever once said a word about that issue?
No, I have not.
I'm going to debate Secretary Clinton, Governor O'Malley, on the issues facing the American people, not Bill Clinton's personal behavior.
Yes, but we're going to have to get 20 minutes to do it, so.
I believe there are many issues.
I have 60 seconds for this?
There are so many issues that we haven't been able to discuss here.
We have not fully discussed immigration reform, and the deplorable number of immigrant detention camps that our nation's now maintaining.
We haven't discussed the shameful treatment that the people of Puerto Rico, our fellow Americans, are getting treated with by these hedge funds that are working them over.
We haven't discussed the fact that in our hemisphere we have the danger of nation-state failures because of drug traffickers; and Honduras, and Guatemala and El Salvador.
I guess the bottom line is this, look we are a great people the way we act at home and abroad based on the beliefs that unite us.
Our belief in the dignity of every person, our belief in our own common good.
There is now challenge that is too great for us to overcome provided we bring forward in these divided times, new leadership that can heal our divides here at home and bring our principles into alignment abroad.
We're on the threshold of a new era of American progress and I believe we have only need to join forces together and cross that threshold into a new era of American prosperity.
Thanks a lot.
Well Lester, I spent a lot of time last week being outraged by what's happening in Flint, Michigan and I think every single American should be outraged.
We've had a city in the United States of America where the population which is poor in many ways and majority African American has been drinking and bathing in lead contaminated water.
And the governor of that state acted as though he didn't really care.
He had requests for help that he basically stonewalled.
I'll tell you what, if the kids in a rich suburb of Detroit had been drinking contaminated water and being bathed in it, there would've been action.
So I sent my top campaign aide down there to talk to the mayor of Flint to see what I could do to help.
I issued a statement about what we needed to do and then I went on a TV show and I said, "it was outrageous that the governor hadn't acted and within two hours he had."
I want to be a president who takes care of the big problems and the problems that are affecting the people of our country everyday.
Well, Secretary Clinton was right and what I did which I think is also right, is demanded the resignation of governor.
A man who acts that irresponsibly should not stay in power.
Now, we are a great nation -- and we've heard a lot of great ideas here tonight.
Let's be honest and let's be truthful.
Very little is going to be done to transform our economy and to create the kind of middle class we need unless we end a corrupt campaign finance system which is undermining American democracy.
We've got to get rid of Super PACs, we've got to get rid of Citizens' United and what we've got to do is create a political revolution which revitalizes American democracy; which brings millions of young people and working people into the political process.
To say loudly and clearly," that the government of the United States of America belongs to all of us and not just a handful of wealthy campaign contributors."
Wolf, thank you very much.
CNN, thank you very much.
Secretary Clinton, thank you very much.
When we began this campaign almost a year ago, we started off at 3 percent in the polls.
We were about 70 points behind Secretary Clinton.
In the last couple of weeks, there were two polls out there that had us ahead.
Of the last nine caucuses and primaries, we have won eight of them, many of them by landslide victories.
Over the last year, we have received almost 7 million individual campaign contributions, averaging -- guess what -- $27 apiece, more individual campaign contributions than any candidate in American history at this point in a campaign.
The reason that our campaign has done so well is because we're doing something very radical: We're telling the American people the truth.
And the truth is that this country is not going to move forward in a significant way for working people unless we overturn this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision...
... and unless we have real campaign reform so that billionaires and super PACs cannot buy elections.
This campaign is also determined to end a rigged economy where the rich get richer and everybody else get poorer, and create an economy that works for all of us, not just the 1 percent.
Thank you.
But I do question...
-- but I do question her judgment.
I question a judgment which voted for the war in Iraq...
I don't believe that that is...
-- the kind of judgment we need to be the kind of president we need.
And then he did say that...
-- he had to question my judgment.
Well, the people of New York voted for me twice to be their senator from New York and...
-- and...
-- and President Obama trusted my judgment enough to ask me to be secretary of State for the United States.
So, look, we have disagreements on policy.
There's no doubt about it.
But if you go and read, which I hope all of you will before Tuesday, Senator Sanders' long interview with the "New York Daily News," talk about judgment and talk about the kinds of problems he had answering questions about even his core issue, breaking up the banks.
When asked, he could not explain how...
-- that would be done and...
-- when asked...
-- when asked about a number of foreign policy issues, he could not answer about Afghanistan, about Israel, about counterterrorism, except to say if he'd had some paper in front of him, maybe he could.
I think you need to have the judgment on day one to be both president and commander-in-chief.
And let's talk about judgment.
And let us talk about the worst foreign policy blunder in the modern history of this country...
Well, let's talk about judgment.
Where does the money come from?
Do we really feel confident about a candidate saying that she's going to bring change in America when she is so dependent on big money interests?
I don't think so.
Well, let me...
We have...
-- let me just say...
-- (INAUDIBLE)...
-- let me -- let me say...
OK.
Thirdly, we have got to understand that in America, we should be thinking big, not small.
We need to join the rest of the industrialized world and guarantee health care to all people.
So I...
-- my (INAUDIBLE).
Well, make -- make no mistake about it, this is not just an attack on me, it's an attack on President Obama.
President Obama...
You know, let me tell you why.
You may not like the answer, but I'll tell you why.
President Obama had a super PAC when he ran.
President Obama took tens of millions of dollars from contributors.
And President Obama was not at all influenced when he made the decision to pass and sign Dodd-Frank, the toughest regulations...
-- on Wall Street in many a year.
So this is -- this is a phony -- this is a phony attack that is designed to raise questions when there is no evidence or support, to undergird the continuation that he is putting forward in these attacks.
Absolutely.
You know, this is what I've saying for the past year.
No bank is too big to fail, no executive too powerful to jail.
I have been talking about what we should be doing under Dodd- Frank.
I'm glad that Senator Sanders is now joining in talking about Dodd-Frank, because Dodd-Frank sets forth the approach that needs to be taken.
I believe, and I will appoint regulators who are tough enough and ready enough to break up any bank that fails the test under Dodd-Frank.
There are two sections there.
If they fail either one, that they're a systemic risk, a grave risk to our economy, or if they fail the other, that their living wills, which is what you're referring to, is inadequate.
Let's look at what is at stake here.
We can never let Wall Street wreck Main street again.
I spoke out against Wall Street when I was a Senator from New York.
I have been standing up and saying continuously we have the law.
We've got to execute under it.
So, you're right.
I will move immediately to break up any financial institution, but I go further because I want the law to extend to those that are part of the shadow banking industry.
The big insurance companies, the hedge funds, something that I have been arguing for now a long time...
That's right.
So, let's start off with the basic premise.
The point is we have got to break them up so that they do not pose a systemic risk and so that we have a vibrant economy with a competitive financial system.
Because I'm not sure that the government should say is you are too big to fail.
You've got to be a certain size.
And, then the banks themselves can figure out what they want to sell off.
I don't know that it's appropriate that the Department of Treasury to be making those decisions.
What we need is to make sure that they are safe.
Dana, you know -- I love being in Brooklyn.
Dana, let me add here that there are two ways to at this under Dodd-Frank, which is after all the law we passed under President Obama, and I'm proud that Barney Frank, one of the authors, has endorsed me because what I have said continuously is, yes, sometimes the government may have to order certain actions.
Sometime the government can permit the institution themselves to take those actions.
That has to be the judgement of the regulators.
But, there's another element to this.
I believe strongly that executives of any of these organizations should be financially penalized if there is a settlement.
They should have to pay up through compensation or bonuses because we have to go after not just the big giant institution, we have got to go after the people who are making the decisions in the institutions.
And hold them accountable as well.
Sure.
Sure.
The obvious decision is when the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of wall street brought this country into the worst economic downturn since the Great Recession -- the Great Depression of the '30s, when millions of people lost their jobs, and their homes, and their life savings, the obvious response to that is that you've got a bunch of fraudulent operators and that they have got to be broken up.
So the problem response -- the proper response in my view is we should break them up.
And that's what my legislation does.
Well, you can tell, Dana, he cannot come up with any example, because there is no example.
It is important -- it's always important.
It may be inconvenient, but it's always important to get the facts straight.
I stood up against the behaviors of the banks when I was a senator.
I called them out on their mortgage behavior.
I also was very willing to speak out against some of the special privileges they had under the tax code.
When I went to the secretary of state office, the president -- President Obama led the effort to pass the Dodd-Frank bill.
That is the law.
Now, this is our ninth debate.
In the prior eight debates, I have said, we have a law.
You don't just say, we're upset about this.
I'm upset about it.
You don't just say, go break them up.
You have a law, because we are a nation of laws.
So I support Dodd-Frank, but I have consistently said that's not enough.
We've got to include the shadow banking sector.
Secretary Clinton called them out.
Oh my goodness, they must have been really crushed by this.
And was that before or after you received huge sums of money by giving speaking engagements?
So they must have been very, very upset by what you did.
Look, here is the difference and here is the clear difference.
These banks, in my view, have too much power.
They have shown themselves to be fraudulent organizations endangering the well-being of our economy.
If elected president, I will break them up.
We have got legislation to do that, end of discussion.
You know, first of all -- first of all, there isn't an issue.
When I was in public service serving as the senator from New York, I did stand up to the banks.
I did make it clear that their behavior would not be excused.
Now, if you're going to look at the problems that actually caused the Great Recession, you've got to look at the whole picture.
It was a giant insurance company, AIG.
It was an investment bank, Lehman Brothers.
It was mortgage companies like Countrywide.
I'm not saying that Senator Sanders did something untoward when he voted to deregulate swaps and derivatives...
... but the fact is he did.
And that contributed to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and started the cascade...
I have said, look, there are certain -- there are certain expectations when you run for president.
This is a new one.
And I've said, if everybody agrees to do it -- because there are speeches for money on the other side.
I know that.
But I will tell you this, there is -- there is a long-standing expectation that everybody running release their tax returns, and you can go -- you can go to my website and see eight years of tax returns.
And I've released 30 years of tax returns.
And I think every candidate, including Senator Sanders and Donald Trump, should do the same.
Right.
You know, let's set the same standard for everybody.
When everybody does it, OK, I will do it, but let's set and expect the same standard on tax returns.
Everybody does it, and then we move forward.
Well, let me respond.
Secretary Clinton, you just heard her, everybody else does it, she'll do it.
I will do it.
I am going to release all of the transcripts of the speeches that I gave on Wall Street behind closed doors, not for $225,000, not for $2,000, not for two cents.
There were no speeches.
Jane does our taxes.
We've been a little bit busy lately.
You'll excuse us.
But we will...
We will get them out.
Well, you know, there are a lot of copy machines around.
Well, I think we got one that's coming out tomorrow.
Last year's.
Yes.
Yes.
Wolf, the answer is, you know, what we have always done in my family is, Jane does them.
And she's been out on the campaign trail.
We will get them out.
We'll get them out very shortly.
It's not a big deal.
Well, for a start, I would tell the gentleman who's the CEO at Verizon to start negotiating with the Communication Workers of America.
And this is -- this is a perfect example, Wolf, of the kind of corporate greed which is destroying the middle class of this country.
This gentleman makes $18 million a year in salary.
That's his -- that's his compensation.
This gentleman is now negotiating to take away health care benefits of Verizon workers, outsource call center jobs to the Philippines, and -- and trying to create a situation where workers will lose their jobs.
He is not investing in the way he should in inner cities in America.
First of all, the word contempt is not right.
There are some great businesses who treat their workers and the environment with respect.
Verizon happens not to be one of them.
-- cut his workforce here substantially and in a given year, by the way, it turns out that both Verizon and General Electric, in a given year, pay nothing in federal income tax despite making billions in profits.
Well, for a start, we're going to raise the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour.
And number two, while it is true we may end up paying a few cents more for a hamburger in McDonald's, at the end of the day, what this economy desperately needs is to rebuild our manufacturing sector with good-paying jobs.
We cannot continue to sustain the loss of millions of decent-paying jobs that we have seen over the last 20, 30 years, based on trade agreements of which Secretary Clinton has voted for almost every one of those.
That has got to change.
Well, first of all, I do have a very comprehensive plan to create more jobs and I think that has to be at the center of our economic approach.
And so I think it is important that we do more on manufacturing.
I went to Syracuse and laid out a $10 billion plan that would, I believe, really jump-start advanced manufacturing.
I have seen the results of what can happen when we have the government cooperating with business.
And that's exactly what I will do.
When I was secretary of State, I helped to lead the way to increased exports of American good around the world, which supports tens of thousands of jobs.
So I think you've got to go at this with a sense of how to accomplish the goal we are setting -- more good jobs with rising incomes for people everywhere from inner cities to rural areas to every distressed community in America.
And that's exactly what my plan would bring about.
I think we have a pretty good record if we look at what happened...
-- in the 1990s, we got 23 million new jobs and incomes went up for everybody.
Let's do that again in America.
I'm going to respond...
Well, look...
Well, of course I would.
And I have supported...
Well, look...
But what I have also said is that we've got to be smart about it, just the way Governor Cuomo was here in New York.
If you look at it, we moved more quickly to $15 in New York City, more deliberately toward $12, $12.50 upstate then to $15.
That is exactly my position.
It's a model for the nation and that's what I will do as president.
Go as quickly as...
-- to get to $15.
You know, wait a minute...
(INAUDIBLE).
-- wait a minute.
SANDERS: (INAUDIBLE).
-- wait, wait...
That's just not accurate.
Well...
Come on, I have stood on the debate stage...
-- well and I...
-- with Senator Sanders eight...
-- times.
Excuse me.
I have said the...
Well...
Exact same thing.
If we can...
-- raise it to $15 in New York...
-- or Los Angeles or Seattle...
-- let's do it.
OK.
I will...
I believe I was...
-- responding.
OK.
And suddenly...
To suddenly...
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
To suddenly announce now that you're for $15, I don't think is quite accurate.
All right.
I supported those on the front lines of the fight for -- it happens to be true.
The minimum wage at the national level right now is $7.25, right?
We want to raise it higher than it ever has been, but we also have to recognize some states and some cities will go higher, and I support that.
I have taken my cue from the Democrats in the Senate, led by Senator Patty Murray and others, like my good friend Kirsten Gillibrand, who has said we will set a national level of $12 and then urge any place that can go above it to go above it.
Well, I think the secretary has confused a lot of people.
I don't know how you're there for the fight for $15 when you say you want a $12-an-hour national minimum wage.
Now, in fact -- in fact, there is an effort, Patty Murray has introduced legislation for $12 minimum wage.
That's good.
I introduced legislation for $15 an hour minimum wage which is better.
And ultimately what we have got to determine is after massive transfer of wealth from the middle class to the top 0.1 percent, when millions of our people are working longer hours for low wages...
I think we have got to be clear, not equivocate, $15 in minimum wage in 50 states in this country as soon as possible.
This is -- this is a serious difference between us.
And what I want to start by saying -- it's not a laughing matter -- 90 people on average a day are killed or commit suicide or die in accidents from guns, 33,000 people a year.
I take it really seriously, because I have spent more time than I care to remember being with people who have lost their loved ones.
So, yes, we have a problem in America.
We need a president who will stand up against the gun lobby.
We need a president who will fight for commonsense gun safety reforms.
And what we have here is a big difference.
Senator Sanders voted against the Brady Bill five times.
He voted for the most important NRA priority, namely giving immunity from liability to gun-makers and dealers, something that is at the root of a lot of the problems that we are facing.
Then he doubled down on that in the New York Daily News interview, when asked whether he would support the Sandy Hook parents suing to try to do something to rein in the advertising of the AR-15, which is advertised to young people as being a combat weapon, killing on the battlefield.
He said they didn't deserve their day in court.
I could not disagree more.
And, finally, this is the only industry in America, the only one.
That has this kind of special protection.
We hear a lot from Senator Sanders about the greed and recklessness of Wall Street, and I agree.
We've got to hold Wall Street accountable...
... Well, what about the greed and recklessness of gun manufacturers and dealers in America?
Then why did she put out that statement?
I put it out...
...
Excuse me, I think I'm responding now.
A statement that was refuted by the governor of the state of Vermont, who was a supporter of hers, who said, yeah, in campaigns people tend to exaggerate.
Here is the fact on guns.
Let's talk about guns.
That horrible, horrible Sandy Hook -- what's the word we want to use, murder, assault, slaughter, unspeakable act.
Back in 1988, I ran for the United States Congress one seat in the state of Vermont.
I probably lost that election, which I lost by three points, because I was the only candidate running who said, you know what?
We should ban assault weapons, not seen them sold or distributed in the United States of America.
I've got a D-minus voting record from the NRA.
And, in fact, because I come from a state which has virtually no gun control, I believe that I am the best qualified candidate to bring back together that consensus that is desperately needed in this country.
But let me say this -- in 1988, as we've heard on every debate occasion, Senator Sanders did run for the Congress and he lost.
He came back in 1990 and he won, and during that campaign he made a commitment to the NRA that he would be against waiting periods.
Thankfully, enough people finally voted for it to keep guns out of the hands of who should not have them.
What we need to do is to do everything that we can to make certain that guns do not fall into the hands of people who do not have them.
Now, I voted against this gun liability law because I was concerned that in rural areas all over this country, if a gun shop owner sells a weapon legally to somebody, and that person then goes out and kills somebody, I don't believe it is appropriate that that gun shop owner who just sold a legal weapon to be held accountable and be sued.
But, what I do believe is when gun shop owners and others knowingly are selling weapons to people who should not have them -- somebody walks in.
They want thousands of rounds of ammunition, or they want a whole lot of guns, yes, that gun shop owner or that gun manufacturer should be held liable.
No, I don't think I owe them an apology.
Well, I believe that the law that Senator Sanders voted for that I voted against, giving this special protection to gun manufacturers and to dealers, is an absolute abdication of responsibility on the part of those who voted for it.
And the point that Senator Sanders keeps making about how he wouldn't want a mom and pop store -- that was not the point of this.
And if he can point to any, any incident where that happened, I would love to hear about it.
What was really going on, I'll tell you, because it has a lot to do with New York City.
New York City was on the brink of being able to hold manufacturers and dealers accountable through a very carefully crafted legal strategy.
The NRA came to their supporters in the Congress and said, stop it, stop it now, and Senator Sanders joined those who did.
Let me just reiterate -- just reiterate so there is no confusion, decades ago, before it was popular, in a rural state with no gun control, Bernie Sanders said, let's ban assault weapons, not see them distributed in the United States of America.
Well, I think that it had some positive aspects to it.
And you mentioned some of them.
The Violence Against Women Act, which has been a very important piece of legislation, in my opinion.
And it also did some things which were to provide more opportunities for young people.
So if we were to have the balance sheet on one side, there are some positive actions and changes.
On the other side, there were decisions that were made that now we must revisit and we have to correct.
I think that sentences got much too long.
The original idea was not that we would increase sentences for non-violent low-level offenders, but once the federal government did what it did, states piled on.
So we have a problem.
And the very first speech I gave in this campaign was about what I will do to reform the criminal justice system and end the over-mass incarceration.
So I think that if all of us go and look back at where we were, Senator Sanders voted for the crime bill, and he says the same thing, there were some good things, and things that we have to change and learn from.
So that's how I see it.
And I think we ought to be putting our attention on forging a consensus to make the changes that will divert more people from the criminal justice system to start.
To tackle systemic racism and divert people in the beginning.
Well, look, I supported the crime bill.
My husband has apologized.
He was the president who actually signed it, Senator Sanders...
... voted for it.
I'm sorry for the consequences that were unintended and that have had a very unfortunate impact on people's lives.
I've seen the results of what has happened in families and in communities.
That's why I chose to make my very first speech a year ago on this issue, Errol, because I want to focus the attention of our country and to make the changes we need to make.
And I also want people...
... especially I want -- I want white people -- I want white people to recognize that there is systemic racism.
It's also in employment, it's in housing, but it is in the criminal justice system, as well.
Because it was a racist term, and everybody knew it was a racist term.
Look, much of what Secretary Clinton said was right.
We had a crime bill.
I voted for it.
It had the Violence Against Women Act in it.
When as mayor of Burlington, we worked very hard to try to eliminate domestic violence.
This took us a good step forward.
We're talking about the weapon that killed the children in Sandy Hook.
This banned assault weapons, not insignificant.
But where we are today is we have a broken criminal justice system.
We have more people in jail than any other country on Earth.
And in my view, what we have got to do is rethink the system from the bottom on up.
And that means, for a start -- and we don't talk about this.
The media doesn't talk about it -- you got 51 percent of African-American kids today who graduated high school who are unemployed or underemployed.
You know what I think?
Maybe we invest in jobs and education for those kids, not jails and incarceration.
And I'll tell you what else.
And I'll tell you what else I think.
And that is, we have got -- and this is the difference between the secretary and myself as I understand it.
We have got to have the guts to rethink the so-called war on drugs.
Too many lives... BLITZER: Thank you, Senator.
Too many lives have been destroyed because people possessed marijuana, millions over a 30-year period.
And that is why I believe we should take marijuana out of the federal Controlled Substance Act.
Well, look, I think that, as Senator Sanders said about what I said, I will say about what he said.
I think that we recognize that we have a set of problems that we cannot ignore and we must address.
And that is why I have been promoting for my entire adult life, I think, the idea of investing early in kids, early childhood education, universal pre-K, like what Mayor de Blasio brought to New York.
We have got to help more kids get off to a good start.
That's why I want a good teacher in a good school for every child, regardless of the ZIP Code that child lives in...
... and to be really focused on how we build ladders of opportunity and tear down these barriers that stand in the way of people getting ahead.
We're going to work with state governments all over this country.
And you know what?
In a very divided Congress, and a very divided politics in America, actually the one area where there is some common ground is conservatives understand that it's insane to be spending $80 billion a year locking up 2.2 million people.
With federal and presidential leadership, we will work with state governments to make sure that people are released from jail under strong supervision, that they get the kind of job training and education they need so they can return to their communities.
On this one, Errol, actually I think you're going to see progressive and conservative support.
We can do it, if we're prepared to be bold.
Well, let me start by saying we need to talk about this issue and we should talk about it in terms of the extraordinary threats that climate change pose to our country and our world.
And that's why for the last many years, both in the Senate and as secretary of State, it's been a big part of my commitment to see what could be done.
But there has never been any doubt that when I was a senator, I tried -- I joined with others to try to get rid of the subsidies for big oil.
And I have proposed that again, because that's what I think needs to be done as we transition from fossil fuels to clean energy.
And everyone who's looked at this independently, "The Washington Post" and others, who give us both hard times when called for on facts, have said that this is absolutely an incorrect false charge.
But, that is not being supported by big oil, and I think it's important to distinguish that.
And, let's talk about what each of us has proposed to try to combat greenhouse gas emissions and put us on the fastest track possible to clean energy.
It is one thing, as the Secretary indicated, to talk about workers.
I'm sure I have contributions, you have contributions from workers in every industry in the country.
Now, what I think is when we look at climate change now, we have got to realize that this is a global environmental crisis of unprecedented urgency.
And, it is not good enough.
You know, if we, God forbid, were attacked tomorrow the whole country would rise up and say we got an enemy out there and we got to do something about it.
That was what 9/11 was about.
(APPLAUSE) I am proud, Wolf, that I have introduced the most comprehensive climate change legislation...
...
Including a tax on carbon.
Something I don't believe Secretary Clinton supports.
Well, let's talk about the global environmental crisis.
Starting in 2009 as your Secretary of State, I worked with President Obama to bring China and India to the table for the very first time, to get a commitment out of them that they would begin to address their own greenhouse gas emissions.
I continued to work on that throughout the four years as Secretary of State, and I was very proud that President Obama and America led the way to the agreement that was finally reached in Paris with 195 nations committing to take steps to actually make a difference in climate change.
And, I was surprised and disappointed when Senator Sanders attacked the agreement, said it was not enough, it didn't go far enough.
You know, at some point putting together 195 countries, I know a little bit about that, was a major accomplishment...
... And, our President led the effort to protect our world and he deserve our appreciation, not our criticism...
... Let's talk about that.
When you were Secretary of State, you also worked hard to expand fracking to countries all over the world.
The issue here -- of course the agreement is a step forward, but you know agreements and I know agreements, there's a lot of paper there.
We've got to get beyond paper right now.
We have got to lead the world in transforming our energy system, not tomorrow, but yesterday.
(APPLAUSE) And, what that means, Wolf, it means having the guts to take on the fossil fuel industry.
Now, I am on board legislation that says, you know what, we ain't going to excavate for fossil fuel on public land.
That's not Secretary Clinton's position.
... Not Secretary Clinton's position.
Well, I'm a little bewildered about how to respond when you have an agreement which gives you the framework to actually take the action that would have only come about because under the Obama administration in the face of implacable hostility from the Republicans in Congress, President Obama moved forward on gas mileage, he moved forward on the clean power plant.
He has moved forward on so many of the fronts that he could given the executive actions that he was able to take.
And, you know, I am getting a little bit -- I'm getting a little bit concerned here because, you know, I really believe that the President has done an incredible job against great odds and deserves to be supported.
Now, it's easy -- it's easy to diagnose the problem.
It's harder to do something about the problem.
And...
Wolf.
Wolf.
No, well, I don't think I've changed my view on what we need to do to go from where we are, where the world is heavily dependent on coal and oil, but principally coal, to where we need to be, which is clean renewable energy, and one of the bridge fuels is natural gas.
And so for both economic and environmental and strategic reasons, it was American policy to try to help countries get out from under the constant use of coal, building coal plants all the time, also to get out from under, especially if they were in Europe, the pressure from Russia, which has been incredibly intense.
So we did say natural gas is a bridge.
We want to cross that bridge as quickly as possible, because in order to deal with climate change, we have got to move as rapidly as we can.
That's why I've set big goals.
I want to see us deploy a half a billion more solar panels by the end of my first term and enough clean energy to provide electricity to every home in America within 10 years.
So I have big, bold goals, but I know in order to get from where we are, where the world is still burning way too much coal, where the world is still too intimidated by countries and providers like Russia, we have got to make a very firm but decisive move in the direction of clean energy.
All right, here is -- here is a real difference.
This is a difference between understanding that we have a crisis of historical consequence here, and incrementalism and those little steps are not enough.
Not right now.
Not on climate change.
Second of all, right now, we have got to tell the fossil fuel industry that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of this planet.
And that means -- and I would ask you to respond.
Are you in favor of a tax on carbon so that we can transit away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy at the level and speed we need to do?
You know, I have laid out a set of actions that build on what President Obama was able to accomplish, building on the clean power plan, which is currently under attack by fossil fuels and the right in the Supreme Court, which is one of the reasons why we need to get the Supreme Court justice that President Obama has nominated to be confirmed so that we can actually continue to make progress.
I don't take a back seat to your legislation that you've introduced that you haven't been able to get passed.
I want to do what we can do to actually make progress in dealing with the crisis.
That's exactly what I have proposed.
And my approach I think is going to get us there faster without tying us up into political knots with a Congress that still would not support what you are proposing.
Secretary Clinton did not answer one simple question.
Are you for a tax on carbon or not?
LOUIS: I have a question for you.
You've said that climate change is the greatest threat to our nation's security.
You've called for a nationwide ban on fracking.
You've also called for phasing out all nuclear power in the U.S.
But wouldn't those proposals drive the country back to coal and oil, and actually undermine your fight against global warming?
No, they wouldn't.
Look, here's where we are.
Let me reiterate.
We have a global crisis.
Pope Francis reminded us that we are on a suicide course.
Our legislation understands, Errol, that there will be economic dislocation.
It is absolutely true.
There will be some people who lose their job.
And we build into our legislation an enormous amount of money to protect those workers.
It is not their fault...
It is not their fault that fossil fuels are destroying our climate.
But we have got to stand up and say right now, as we would if we were attacked by some military force, we have got to move urgency -- urgently and boldly.
What does that mean?
Yes?
Well, you don't phase...
-- it all out tomorrow.
And you certainly don't phase nuclear out tomorrow.
But this is what you do do.
What you do do is say that we are going to have a massive program -- and I had introduced -- introduced legislation for 10 million solar rooftops.
We can put probably millions of people to work retrofitting and weatherizing buildings all over this country.
Saving -- rebuilding our rail system.
Our mass transit system.
If we approach this, Errol, as if we were literally at a war -- you know, in 1941, under Franklin Delano Roosevelt, we moved within three years, within three more years to rebuild our economy to defeat Nazism and Japanese imperialism.
That is exactly the kind of approach we need right now.
Lead the world.
Well, let me say I think we did a great deal to help the Libyan people after Qadafi's demise.
And here's what we did.
We helped them hold two successful elections, something that is not easy, which they did very well because they had a pent up desire to try to chart their own future after 42 years of dictatorship.
I was very proud of that.
We got rid of the chemical weapons stockpile that Qadafi had, getting it out of Libya, getting it away from militias or terrorist groups.
We also worked to help them set up their government.
We sent a lot of American experts there.
We offered to help them secure their borders, to train a new military.
They, at the end, when it came to security issues, Wolf, did not want troops from any other country, not just us, European or other countries, in Libya.
And so we were caught in a very difficult position.
They could not provide security on their own, which we could see and we told them that, but they didn't want to have others helping to provide that security.
And the result has been a clash between different parts of the country, terrorists taking up some locations in the country.
And we can't walk away from that.
We need to be working with European and Arab partners...
-- with the United Nations in order to continue to try to support them.
The Libyan people deserve a chance at democracy and self- government.
And I, as president, will keep trying to give that to them
According to "The New York Times.
.. None SANDERS D 10 513 1 No  -- for President Obama, this was a pretty tough call, like a 51-49 call, do you overthrow Qadafi, who, of course, was a horrific dictator? None SANDERS D 10 515 0 No The New York Times" told us it was Secretary Clinton who led the effect for that regime change.
And this is the same type of mentality that supported the war in Iraq.
Look...
-- Qadafi, Saddam Hussein are brutal, brutal murdering thugs.
No debate about that.
But what we have got to do and what the president was saying is we didn't think thoroughly about what happens the day after you get rid of these dictators.
-- American involvement in regime change, you see that quite often.
Yes, well, I...
-- I...
No.
We went to the United Nations -- yes, he did.
We went to the United Nations Security Council.
We got support from the Security Council.
And we then supported the efforts of our European and Arab allies and partners.
This was a request made to our government by the Europeans and by the Arabs because of their great fear of what chaos in Syria would do to them.
And if you want to know what chaos does, not just to the people inside but the people on the borders, look at Syria.
Nobody stood up to Assad and removed him, and we have had a far greater disaster in Syria than we are currently dealing with right now in Libya.
Well, that isn't...
Second of all -- second of all, if I might, in terms of Syria, in terms of Syria...
There was also in that a reference to the Security Council, and I know you're not shy when you oppose something, Senator.
So, yes, it was unanimous.
That's exactly right, including you.
And what we did was to try to provide support for our European and Arab allies and partners.
The decision was the president's.
Did I do the due diligence?
Did I talk to everybody I could talk to?
Did I visit every capital and then report back to the president?
Yes, I did.
That's what a secretary of state does.
But at the end of the day, those are the decisions that are made by the president to in any way use American military power.
And the president made that decision.
And, yes, we did try without success because of the Libyans' obstruction to our efforts, but we did try and we will continue to try to help the Libyan people.
If you listen, you know -- two points.
Number one, yes, 100-0 in the Senate voted for democracy in Libya and I would vote for that again.
But that is very different from getting actively involved to overthrow and bring about regime change without fully understanding what the consequence of that regime change would be.
Second of all, I know you keep referring to Barack Obama all night here, but you in Syria, you in Syria talked about a no-fly zone, which the president certainly does not support, nor do I support because, A, it will cost an enormous sum of money, second of all, it runs the risk of getting us sucked into perpetual warfare in that region.
Thirdly, when we talk about Syria right now, no debate, like Gadhafi, like Saddam Hussein, Assad is another brutal murdering dictator, but right now our fight is to destroy ISIS first, and to get rid of Assad second.
Well, I think Senator Sanders has just reinforced my point.
Yes, when I was secretary of state I did urge, along with the Department of Defense and the CIA that we seek out, vet, and train, and arm Syrian opposition figures so that they could defend themselves against Assad.
The president said no.
Now, that's how it works.
People who work for the president make recommendations and then the president makes the decision.
So I think it's only fair to look at where we are in Syria today.
And, yes, I do still support a no-fly zone because I think we need to put in safe havens for those poor Syrians who are fleeing both Assad and ISIS and have some place that they can be safe.
Yes, I do.
Well, you got to ask -- you got to ask Trump.
All I can tell you is, with a huge deficit, with 47 million people living in poverty, with our inner cities collapsing, yeah, I do think countries like Germany and U.K. and France and European countries whose economy, or at least its standard of living and health care and education, they're doing pretty well.
So I would not be embarrassed as president of the United States to stay to our European allies, you know what, the United States of America cannot just support your economies.
You got to put up your own fair share of the defense burden.
Nothing wrong with that.
I support our continuing involvement in NATO.
And it is important to ask for our NATO allies to pay more of the cost.
There is a requirement that they should be doing so, and I believe that needs to be enforced.
But there's a larger question here.
NATO has been the most successful military alliance in probably human history.
It has bound together across the Atlantic countries that are democracies, that have many of the same values and interests, and now we need to modernize it and move it into the 21st century to serve as that head of our defense operations in Europe when it comes to terrorism and other threats that we face.
So...
I will stay in NATO.
I will stay in NATO, and we will continue to look for missions and other kinds of programs that they will support.
Remember, NATO was with us in Afghanistan.
Most of the member countries also lost soldiers and civilians in Afghanistan.
They came to our rallying defense after 9/11.
That meant a lot.
And, yes, we have to work out the financial aspects of it, but let's not forget what's really happening.
With Russia being more aggressive, making all kinds of intimidating moves toward the Baltic countries, we've seen what they've done in Eastern Ukraine, we know how they want to rewrite the map of Europe, it is not in our interests.
Think of how much it would cost if Russia's aggression were not deterred because NATO was there on the front lines making it clear they could not move forward.
Well, as somebody who spent many months of my life when I was a kid in Israel, who has family in Israel, of course Israel has a right not only to defend themselves, but to live in peace and security without fear of terrorist attack.
That is not a debate.
But -- but what you just read, yeah, I do believe that.
Israel was subjected to terrorist attacks, has every right in the world to destroy terrorism.
But we had in the Gaza area -- not a very large area -- some 10,000 civilians who were wounded and some 1,500 who were killed.
Now, if you're asking not just me, but countries all over the world was that a disproportionate attack, the answer is that I believe it was, and let me say something else.
And, let me say something else.
As somebody who is 100% pro-Israel, in the long run -- and this is not going to be easy, God only knows, but in the long run if we are ever going to bring peace to that region which has seen so much hatred and so much war, we are going to have to treat the Palestinian people with respect and dignity.
So what is not to say -- to say that right now in Gaza, right now in Gaza unemployment is s somewhere around 40%.
You got a log of that area continues, it hasn't been built, decimated, houses decimated health care decimated, schools decimated.
I believe the United States and the rest of the world have got to work together to help the Palestinian people.
That does not make me anti-Israel.
That paves the way, I think...
...to an approach that works in the Middle East.
I negotiated the cease-fire between Israel and Hamas in November of 2012.
I did it in concert with...
President Abbas of the Palestinian authority based in Ramallah, I did it with the then Muslim Brotherhood President, Morsi, based in Cairo, working closely with Prime Minister Netanyahu and the Israeli cabinet.
I can tell you right now I have been there with Israeli officials going back more than 25 years that they do not seek this kind of attacks.
They do not invite the rockets raining down on their towns and villages.
They do not believe that there should be a constant incitement by Hamas aided and abetted by Iran against Israel.
And, so when it came time after they had taken the incoming rockets, taken the assaults and ambushes on their soldiers and they called and told me, I was in Cambodia, that they were getting ready to have to invade Gaza again because they couldn't find anybody to talk to tell them to stop it, I flew all night, I got there, I negotiated that.
So, I don't know how you run a country when you are under constant threat, terrorist tact, rockets coming at you.
You have a right to defend yourself.
That does not mean -- that does not mean that you don't take appropriate precautions.
And, I understand that there's always second guessing anytime there is a war.
It also does not mean that we should not continue to do everything we can to try to reach a two-state solution, which would give the Palestinians the rights and...
... just let me finish.
The rights and the autonomy that they deserve.
And, let me say this, if Yasser Arafat had agreed with my husband at Camp David in the Late 1990s to the offer then Prime Minister Barat put on the table, we would have had a Palestinian state for 15 years.
I don't think that anybody would suggest that Israel invites and welcomes missiles flying into their country.
That is not the issue.
And, you evaded the answer.
You evaded the question.
The question is not does Israel have a right to respond, nor does Israel have a right to go after terrorists and destroy terrorism.
That's not the debate.
Was their response disproportionate?
I believe that it was, you have not answered that.
I will certainly be willing to answer it.
I think I did answer it by saying that of course there have to be precautions taken but even the most independent analyst will say the way that Hamas places its weapons, the way that it often has its fighters in civilian garb, it is terrible.
I'm not saying it's anything other than terrible.
It would be great -- remember, Israel left Gaza.
They took out all the Israelis.
They turned the keys over to the Palestinian people.
And what happened?
Hamas took over Gaza.
So instead of having a thriving economy with the kind of opportunities that the children of the Palestinians deserve, we have a terrorist haven that is getting more and more rockets shipped in from Iran and elsewhere.
I read Secretary Clinton's statement speech before AIPAC.
I heard virtually no discussion at all about the needs of the Palestinian people.
Almost none in that speech.
So here is the issue: of course Israel has a right to defend itself, but long term there will never be peace in that region unless the United States plays a role, an even-handed role trying to bring people together and recognizing the serious problems that exist among the Palestinian people.
That is what I believe the world wants to us do and that's the kind of leadership that we have got to exercise.
Well, if I -- I want to add, you know, again describing the problem is a lot easier than trying to solve it.
And I have been involved, both as first lady with my husband's efforts, as a senator supporting the efforts that even the Bush administration was undertaking, and as secretary of state for President Obama, I'm the person who held the last three meetings between the president of the Palestinian Authority and the prime minister of Israel.
There were only four of us in the room, Netanyahu, Abbas, George Mitchell, and me.
Three long meetings.
And I was absolutely focused on what was fair and right for the Palestinians.
I was absolutely focused on what we needed to do to make sure that the Palestinian people had the right to self-government.
And I believe that as president I will be able to continue to make progress and get an agreement that will be fair both to the Israelis and the Palestinians without ever, ever undermining Israel's security.
There comes a time -- there comes a time when if we pursue justice and peace, we are going to have to say that Netanyahu is not right all of the time.
Well...
... you know, I have spoken about and written at some length the very candid conversations I've had with him and other Israeli leaders.
Nobody is saying that any individual leader is always right, but it is a difficult position.
If you are from whatever perspective trying to seek peace, trying to create the conditions for peace when there is a terrorist group embedded in Gaza that does not want to see you exist, that is a very difficult challenge.
And I think, again, it is a complicated issue and God knows for decades presidents, including President Clinton and others, Jimmy Carter and others have tried to do the right thing.
All that I am saying is we cannot continue to be one-sided.
There are two sides to the issue.
Well, first of all, I disagree with that study.
There are many economists who come up with very, very different numbers.
My proposal, a Medicare-for-all, single-payer program, will save...
... will save middle-class families many thousands of dollars a year in their health care costs.
Public colleges and universities tuition free?
Damn right.
That is exactly what we should be doing.
And I'd pay for that -- I'd pay for that by telling Wall Street that, yeah, we are going to have a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will bring in more than enough money to provide free tuition at public colleges and universities and lower the outrageous level of student debt.
Wolf, we have seen in the last 30 years a massive transfer of wealth from the middle class to the top 0.1 percent.
The establishment does not like this idea, but, yes, I am determined to transfer that money back to the working families of this country.
Well, again -- again, I absolutely agree with the diagnosis, the diagnosis that we've got to do much more to finish the work of getting universal health care coverage, something that I've worked on for 25 years.
Before there was something called Obamacare, there was something called Hillarycare.
And we're now at 90 percent of coverage; I'm going to get us to 100 percent.
And with respect to college, I think we have to make college affordable.
We are pricing out middle-class, working, and poor families.
There's no doubt about that.
But I do think when you make proposals and you're running for president, you should be held accountable for whether or not the numbers add up and whether or not the plans...
... are actually going to work.
And just very briefly, on health care, most of the people who have analyzed what Senator Sanders put out -- remember, he had a plan for about, I don't know, 18, 20 years.
He changed in the middle of this campaign.
He put out another plan.
People have been analyzing the new plan.
And there is no doubt by those who have analyzed it, progressive economists, health economists, and the like, that it would pose an incredible burden, not just on the budget, but on individuals.
In fact, the Washington Post called it a train-wreck for the poor.
A working woman on Medicaid who already has health insurance would be expected to pay about $2,300.
The same for free college.
The free college offer -- you know, my late father said, if somebody promises you something for free, read the fine print.
You read the fine print, and here's what it says.
The fine print says this, that it will -- the federal government will cover two-thirds of the cost and require the states, even those led by Republican governors...
... to carry out what the remaining one-third of the cost.
I know what Secretary Clinton is saying.
We are not a country that has the courage to stand up to big money and do what has to be done for the working families of the country.
Secretary Clinton will have to explain to the people of our country how it could be that every other major country on Earth manages to guarantee health care to all of their people, spending significantly less per capita than we can.
I live 50 miles away from Canada, you know?
It's not some kind of communist authoritarian country.
They're doing OK.
They got a health care system that guarantees health care to all people.
We can do the same.
In terms of public colleges and universities, please don't tell me that we cannot do what many other countries around the world are doing.
Kids should not be punished and leave school deeply in debt, for what crime?
For trying to get an education.
So, yes, we are going to pay for it...
Well...
We have -- we have a difference of opinion.
We both want to get to universal health care coverage.
I did stand up to the special interests and the powerful forces, the health insurance companies and the drug companies.
And perhaps that's why I am so much in favor of supporting President Obama's signature accomplishment with the Affordable Care Act, because I know how hard it was to get that passed, even with a Democratic Congress.
So rather than letting the Republicans repeal it or rather starting all over again, trying to throw the country into another really contentious debate, let's make the Affordable Care Act work for everybody...
... let's get to 100 percent coverage, let's get the cost down, and let's guarantee health care.
I have said repeatedly, Wolf, I am going to make the wealthy pay into Social Security to extend the Social Security Trust Fund.
That is one way.
If that is the way that we pursue, I will follow that.
But there are other ways.
We should be looking at taxing passive income by wealthy people.
We should be looking at taxing all of their investment.
But here's the real issue, because I -- I've heard this, I've seen the reports of it.
I have said from the very beginning, we are going to protect Social Security.
I was one of the leaders in the fight against Bush when he was trying to privatize Social Security.
But we also, in addition to extending the Trust Fund, which I am absolutely determined to do, we've got to help people who are not being taken care of now.
And because Social Security started in the 1930s, a lot of women have been left out and left behind.
And it's time that we provide more benefits for widows, divorcees, for caregivers, for women who deserve more from the Social Security...
-- system and that will be my highest priority.
An interesting comment, but you didn't answer the question.
I did.
If that's the way we're...
No, you didn't.
My legi...
-- yes, I did.
Can I answer...
I did answer the...
-- may I please...
Well, don't -- don't put words...
-- can I have... (CROSSTALK)
-- into my mouth and say something...
-- do I not?
-- that's not accurate.
All right.
Essentially what you described is my legislation, which includes (INAUDIBLE)...
Now, we've got -- here is the issue.
Your answer has been the same year after year.
In fact, the idea that I'm bringing forth, I have to admit it, you know, it wasn't my idea.
It was Barack Obama's idea in 2008, the exact same idea.
He called for lifting the cap, which is now higher -- it's at 118 -- and starting at 250 and going on up.
If you do that, you're going to extend the life of Social Security for 58 years.
You will significantly expand benefits by 1,300 bucks a year for seniors and disabled vets under $16,000 a year.
What's wrong with that?
Are you prepared to support it?
You have sup...
I think it's important...
-- to point out that...
All right, so...
So, yes, we both want to make sure...
Look, Wolf...
-- Social Security (INAUDIBLE)...
-- I am very glad that...
-- and well-funded...
I am very glad to...
-- and extending and expanding Social Security.
If that is the case, welcome on board.
I'm glad you're here.
No.
We are going...
-- we are...
-- we are going...
I -- as he said, I've said the same thing for years.
I didn't say anything different tonight.
We are going to extend the Social Security Trust Fund.
There is still something called Congress.
Now, I happen to support Democrats and I want to get Democrats to take back the majority in the United States Senate...
-- so a lot of -- a lot of what we're talking about can actually be implemented...
-- when I am president.
-- I'm still...
I've got to admit...
-- maybe I'm a little bit confused.
Are you or are you not supporting legislation to lift the cap on taxable income and expand Social Security for 58 years and increase benefits...
I am...
-- yes or no?
I have said yes, we are going to pick the best way or combination...
Oh, you -- ah.
OK.
-- or combination of ways...
-- you know...
-- it -- it's all -- it's always a little bit, uh, challenging because, you know, if Senator Sanders doesn't agree with how you are approaching something, then you are a member of the establishment.
Well, let me say then...
Well, look...
-- let me say this...
-- we are going to extend the Social Security Trust Fund.
We've got some good ideas to do it.
Let's get a Congress elected...
-- that will actually agree...
-- with us in doing it.
Let me interject here.
Yes, Secretary Clinton...
-- you are a member of the establishment.
(INAUDIBLE).
I am not going to contradict the president's strategy on this.
And I'm not going to engage in hypotheticals.
I fully support the president.
And I believe that the president -- the president is on the right side of both the Constitution and history.
And the Senate needs to immediately begin to respond.
So I'm going to support the president.
When I am president, I will take stock of where we are and move from there.
Well, there is no question.
I mean, it really is an outrage.
And it just continues, the seven-and-a-half years of unbelievable obstructionism we have seen from these right-wing Republicans.
I mean, a third-grader in America understands the president of the United States has the right to nominate individuals to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Apparently everybody understands that except the Republicans in Congress.
Yes, but here is the point, and obviously i will strongly support that nomination as a member of the Senate.
But, if elected president, I would ask the president to withdraw that nomination because I think -- I think this.
I think that we need a Supreme Court justice who will make it crystal clear, and this nominee has not yet done that, crystal clear that he or she will vote to overturn Citizens United and make sure that American democracy is not undermined.
You know, there is no doubt that the only people that I would ever appoint to the Supreme Court are people who believe that Roe V. Wade is settled law and Citizens United needs to be overturned.
And in the meantime we have states, governors doing everything they can to restrict women's rights.
We have a presidential candidate by the name of Donald Trump saying that women should be punished.
And we are never asked about this.
And to be complete in my concern, Senator Sanders says with respect to Trump it was a distraction.
I don't think it's a distraction.
It goes to the heart of who we are as women, our rights, our autonomy, our ability to make our own decisions, and we need to be talking about that and defending Planned Parenthood from these outrageous attacks.
You're looking at a senator and former congressman who proudly has a 100 percent pro-choice voting record, who will take on those Republican governors who are trying to restrict a woman's right to choose, who will take on those governors right now who are discriminating outrageously against the LGBT community, who comes from a state which led the effort for gay marriage in this country, proudly so.
Who not only thinks we are not going to -- not defund Planned Parenthood, we've got to expand funding for Planned Parenthood.
Well, why would I be running for the Democratic nomination to be president of the United States?
But here is a good point.
You know, in virtually all of the general election match-up polls between Trump and Secretary Clinton and Trump and Bernie Sanders, in almost all of those polls, I do better than Secretary Clinton both in the CNN poll I was 20 points ahead of Trump.
I think Secretary Clinton was 12 points.
And you know why?
Because in fact a whole lot of people -- this may be a shock to the secretary, but there a whole lot of independents in this country.
And we are not going to win the White House based on just long-term Democratic votes.
We have got to reach out to independents and I think I am well qualified to do that.
But, I will also say, and this is important and maybe the Secretary disagrees with me, but I am proud that millions of young people who previously were not involved in the political process are now coming into it, and I do believe, I do believe that we have got to open the door of the Democratic party to those people.
And, I think the future of the Democratic party is not simply by raising money from wealthy campaign contributors.
I think that the way we are doing it in this campaign...
$27 a contribution...
Let us talk about where we are in this race.
I've gotten more votes than anybody running.
That is 2.3 million more than Senator Sanders.
And it is 1.4 million more than Donald Trump.
I think you have to look at the facts.
And, the facts are that I'm putting together a very broad-based, inclusive coalition from the South to the North, from the East to the West, with African-American, Latinos, women, union households, working people and I am very proud of the campaign we are running.
It is a campaign that will not only capture the Democratic nomination, but a campaign that will defeat whoever the Republican end up nominating.
And, I want to say -- I also want to say that I do -- I do think it is absolutely critical and incredible that we have so many young people involved in the political process.
I applaud all of those who are applauding you, Senator Sanders.
We're happy that they are supporting you, that they are passionately committed to you and to the issues.
But, let me also say it's going to be important that we unify the Democratic party when the nomination process has been completed...
And, I know something about that...
Thank you so much.
Because, when I went to the very end of the 2008 campaign with then Senator Obama...
... We did unify the party, and we did elect a Democratic president...
... Let me, if I may just briefly say something...
I think we're going to win this nomination to tell you the truth.
But you know what?
We're out of the Deep South now.
And we're moving up.
We got here.
We're going to California.
We got a number of large states there.
And having won seven out of the last eight caucuses and primaries, having a level of excitement and energy among working people and low-income people doing better against Donald Trump and the other Republicans in poll after poll than Secretary Clinton is, yeah, I believe that we're going to win this nomination, and I believe we're going to obliterate Donald Trump or whoever the Republican candidate is.
Now, let me say this...
I think it's -- I think it's important for people out there watching this tonight to know that I also have a considerable lead in pledged delegates.
And my lead in pledged delegates is actually wider than Barack Obama's lead was over me.
And in addition to winning states in the Deep South, we won Florida, Texas, Arizona, Massachusetts, Ohio, Illinois, North Carolina, Missouri.
And so I think where we stand today is that we are in this campaign very confident and optimistic, but it all comes down to reaching every single voter.
I'm not taking anything for granted or any voter or any place.
So I'm going to work my heart out here in New York until the polls close on Tuesday.
I'm going to work in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Delaware and Maryland, all the way through California.
And when we end up with the number of delegates we need, we will unite the party and have a unified convention...
The reason -- the reason why in virtually every contest we are winning by very strong margins younger people -- and I'm not just talking about very young.
You know, the older you get, the younger young gets -- 45 or younger -- is I think people are sensing that establishment politics and dependence on Wall Street and big money interest is really never going to address the crises that we face.
And people understand, you can't take money from powerful special interests into your PAC and then really expect the American people to believe you're going to stand up to these powerful special interests.
So I am very proud of the fact that we have brought millions of new people into the political process...
... many of whom previously had given up.
I grew up in Brooklyn, New York...
... the son of an immigrant who came to this country from Poland at the age of 17 without a nickel in his pocket, never made a whole lot of money, but was a very proud American, because this country gave him and my mom the opportunity to send their kids to college.
I believe that this country has enormous potential if we have the guts to take on the big money interests who dominate our economic and political life.
And I disagree with Secretary Clinton in the belief that you can get money from Wall Street, that you can get money for a super PAC from powerful special interests, and then at the end of the day do what has to be done for the working families of this country.
I just don't accept that.
What I believe is that this country, if we stand together and not let the Trumps of the world divide us up, can guarantee health care to all people as a right, can have paid family and medical leave, can make public colleges and universities tuition-free, can lead the world in transforming our energy system and combatting climate change, can break up the large financial institutions, can demand that the wealthiest people in this country start paying their fair share of taxes.
And we can do that when millions of people stand up, fight back, and create a government that works for all of us, not just the 1 percent.
That is what the political revolution is about.
That is what this campaign is about.
And with your help, we're going to win here in New York.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I am very grateful for the fact that the people of New York gave me the great honor of serving as your senator.
You took a chance on me in 2000, and then you re-elected me with one of the biggest margins we've had in our state in 2006.
During those years, we worked closely together.
I tried to have your back, and time and time again, you had mine.
We took on the challenges of 9/11 together.
We got the money to rebuild New York.
We came to the aid of our brave first responders, construction workers, and others who endangered their own health by helping to save lives and search for survivors.
We worked to create jobs -- despite the disastrous policies of George W. Bush -- across New York.
And we stood up time and time again against all kinds of vested powerful interests.
I'm asking for your support again in the primary on Tuesday to continue that work together, to take what we did in New York and to take those New York values to the White House, and put them to work on behalf of all of our people, to knock down the barriers that stand in the way.
You know, of course we have economic barriers.
I've been fighting against those trying to even the odds most of my adult life.
But we also have racial barriers, gender barriers, homophobic barriers, disability barriers.
We have a lot of barriers that stand in the way of people being treated as they should and having the chance to live up to their own God-given potential.
So I am humbly asking for your support on Tuesday.
I'll work my heart out for you again.
And together, we won't just make promises we can't keep.
We'll deliver results that will improve the lives of the people in New York and in America.
That's what we'll do together.
Thank you, New York.
Well, John, let me concur with you and with all Americans who are shocked and disgusted by what we saw in Paris yesterday.
Together, leading the world, this country will rid our planet of this barbarous organization called ISIS.
And then on top of that, we've got a corrupt campaign finance system in which millionaires and billionaires are pouring huge sums of money into super PACS heavily influencing the political process.
What my campaign is about is a political revolution -- millions of people standing up and saying, enough is enough.
Our government belongs to all of us, and not just the hand full of billionaires.
Well, our prayers are with the people of France tonight, but that is not enough.
We need to have a resolve that will bring the world together to root out the kind of radical jihadist ideology that motivates organizations like ISIS, a barbaric, ruthless, violent jihadist terrorist group.
This election is not only about electing a president.
It's also about choosing our next commander-in-chief.
And I will be laying out in detail, what I think we need to do with our friends and allies in Europe and elsewhere to do a better job of coordinating efforts against the scourge of terrorism.
Our country deserves no less, because all of the other issues we want to deal with depend upon us being secure and strong.
My heart, like all of us in this room, John, and all the people across our country, my hearts go out to the people of France in this moment of loss.
Parents, and sons, and daughters and family members, and as our hearts go out to them and as our prayers go out to them, we must remember this, that this isn't the new face of conflict and warfare, not in the 20th century but the new face of conflict and warfare in the 21st century.
And there is no nation on the planet better able to adapt to this change than our nation.
We must able to work collaboratively with others.
We must anticipate these threats before they happen.
This is the new sort of challenge, the new sort of threat that does, in fact, require new thinking, fresh approaches and new leadership.
As a former mayor and a former governor, there was never a single day, John, when I went to bed or woke up without realizing that this could happen in our own country.
We have a lot of work to do, to better prepare our nation and to better lead this world into this new century.
Well, John, I think that we have to look at ISIS as the leading threat of an international terror network.
It cannot be contained, it must be defeated.
There is no question in my mind that if we summon our resources, both our leadership resources and all of the tools at our disposal, not just military force, which should be used as a last resort, but our diplomacy, our development aid, law enforcement, sharing of intelligence in a much more open and cooperative way -- that we can bring people together.
But it cannot be an American fight.
And I think what the president has consistently said-- which I agree with-- is that we will support those who take the fight to ISIS.
That is why we have troops in Iraq that are helping to train and build back up the Iraqi military, why we have special operators in Syria working with the Kurds and Arabs, so that we can be supportive.
But this cannot be an American fight, although American leadership is essential.
And then, with the revolution against Assad -- and I did early on say we needed to try to find a way to train and equip moderates very early so that we would have a better idea of how to deal with Assad because I thought there would be extremist groups filling the vacuum.
So, yes, this has developed.
I think that there are many other reasons why it has in addition to what happened in the region, but I don't think that the United States has the bulk of the responsibility.
I really put that on Assad and on the Iraqis and on the region itself.
John, I would disagree with Secretary Clinton respectfully on this score.
This actually is America's fight.
It cannot solely be America's fight.
America is best when we work in collaboration with our allies.
America is best when we are actually standing up to evil in this world.
And ISIS, make no mistake about it, is an evil in this world.
ISIS has brought down a Russian airliner.
ISIS has now attacked a western democracy in -- in France.
And we do have a role in this.
Not solely ours, but we must work collaboratively with other nations.
The great failing of these last 10 or 15 years, John, has been our failing of human intelligence on the ground.
Our role in the world is not to roam the globe looking for new dictators to topple.
Our role in the world is to make ourselves a beacon of hope.
Make ourselves stronger at home, but also our role in the world, yes, is also to confront evil when it rises.
We took out the safe haven in Afghanistan, but now there is, undoubtedly, a larger safe haven and we must rise to this occasion in collaboration and with alliances to confront it, and invest in the future much better human intelligence so we know what the next steps are.
Absolutely.
And if we do not get our act together and listen to what the scientists say, you're going to see countries all over the world -- this is what the CIA says -- they're going to be struggling over limited amounts of water, limited amounts of land to grow their crops ask you're going to see all kinds of international conflict.
But, of course, international terrorism is a major issue that we have got to address today.
And I agree with much of what the Secretary and the Governor have said.
But let me have one area of disagreement with the Secretary.
I think she said something like the bulk of the responsibility is not ours.
Well, in fact, I would argue that the disastrous invasion of Iraq, something that I strongly opposed, has unraveled the region completely and led to the rise of al-Qaeda and to ISIS.
Now, in fact, what we have got to do -- and I think there is widespread agreement here -- is the United States cannot do it alone.
What we need to do is lead an international coalition which includes very significantly the Muslim nations in that region who are going to have to fight and defend their way of life.
I don't think any -- I don't think any sensible person would disagree that the invasion of Iraq led to the massive level of instability we are seeing right now.
I think that was one of the worst foreign policy blunders in the more than history of the United States.
Thank you, John.
Well, thank you, John.
I think it's important we put this in historic context.
The United States has, unfortunately, been victimized by terrorism going back decades.
In the 1980s, it was in Beirut, Lebanon, under President Reagan's administration, and 258 Americans, marines, embassy personnel, and others were murdered.
We also had attacks on two of our embassies in Tanzania, Kenya, when my husband was president.
Again, Americans murdered.
And then, of course, 9/11 happened, which happened before there was an invasion of Iraq.
I have said the invasion of Iraq was a mistake.
But I think if we're ever going to really tackle the problems posed by jihadi extreme terrorism, we need to understand it and realize that it has antecedents to what happened in Iraq and we have to continue to be vigilant about it.
I think we have a disagreement, and the disagreement is that not only did I vote against the war in Iraq.
If you look at history, John, you will find that regime change -- whether it was in the early '50s in Iran, whether it was toppling Salvador Allende in Chile, whether it is overthrowing the government of Guatemala way back when -- these invasions, these toppling of governments, regime changes have unintended consequences.
I would say that on this issue, I'm a little bit more conservative than the Secretary...
... And that I am not a great fan of regime change.
John, may I -- may I interject here?
Secretary Clinton also said we -- it was not just the invasion of Iraq which Secretary Clinton voted for and has since said was a big mistake -- and, indeed, it was.
But it was also the cascading effects that followed that.
It was also the disbanding of many elements of the Iraqi army that are now showing up as part of ISIS.
It was country after country without making the investment in human intelligence to understand who the new leaders were and the new forces were that are coming up.
We need to be much more far thinking in this new 21st century era of -- of nation state failures and conflict.
It's not just about getting rid of a single dictator.
It is about understanding the secondary and third consequences that fall next.
Well, of course, each of these cases needs to be looked at individually and analyzed.
Part of the problem that we have currently in the Middle East is that Assad has hung on to power with the very strong support of Russia and Iran and with the proxy of Hezbollah being there basically fighting his battles.
So I don't think you can paint with a broad brush.
This is an incredibly complicated region of the world.
It's become more complicated.
And many of the fights that are going on are not ones that the United States has either started or have a role in.
The Shi'a-Sunni split.
The dictatorships have suppressed people's aspirations.
The increasing globalization without any real safety valve for people to have a better life.
We saw that in Egypt.
We saw a dictator overthrown.
We saw a Muslim brotherhood president installed, and then we saw him ousted and the army back.
So, I think we've got to understand the complexity of the world that we are facing and no place is more so than in the Middle East.
The Secretary's obviously right.
It is enormously complicated.
But here's something that I believe we have to do as we put together an international coalition, and that is we have to understand that the Muslim nations in the region -- Saudi Arabia, Iran, Turkey, Jordan -- all of these nations, they're going to have to get their hands dirty, their boots on the ground.
They are going to have to take on ISIS.
This is a war for the soul of Islam.
And those countries who are opposed to Islam, they are going to have to get deeply involved in a way that is not the case today.
We should be supportive of that effort.
So should the UK, so should France.
But those Muslim countries are going to have to lead the effort.
They are not doing it now.
Well, I think -- I think that is very unfair to a few you mentioned, most particularly Jordan, which has put a lot on the line for the United States, has also taken in hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria, and has been, therefore, subjected to threats and attacks by extremists themselves.
I do agree that in particular, Turkey and the Gulf nations have got to make up their minds.
Are they going to stand with us against this kind of jihadi radicalism or not?
And there are many ways of doing it.
They can provide forces.
They can provide resources.
But they need to be absolutely clear about where they stand.
Well, we did have a plan, and I think it's fair to say that of all of the Arab leaders, Gaddafi probably had more blood on his hands of Americans than anybody else.
And when he moved on his own people, threatening a massacre, genocide, the Europeans and the Arabs, our allies and partners, did ask for American help and we provided it.
And we didn't put a single boot on the ground, and Gaddafi was deposed.
The Libyans turned out for one of the most successful, fairest elections that any Arab country has had.
They elected moderate leaders.
Now, there has been a lot of turmoil and trouble as they have tried to deal with these radical elements which you find in this arc of instability, from north Africa to Afghanistan.
And it is imperative that we do more not only to help our friends and partners protect themselves and protect our own homeland, but also to work to try to deal with this arc of instability, which does have a lot of impact on what happens in a country like Libya.
John, the world is a very dangerous place, but the world is not too dangerous of a place for the United States of America, provided we act according to our principles, provided we act intelligently.
I mean, let's talk about this arc of instability that Secretary Clinton talked about.
Libya is now a mess.
Syria is a mess.
Iraq is a mess.
Afghanistan is a mess.
As Americans, we have shown ourselves to have the greatest military on the face of the planet, but we are not so very good at anticipating threats and appreciating just how difficult it is to build up stable democracies, to make the investments and sustainable development that we must as a nation if we are to attack the root causes of these sorts of instability.
And I wanted to add one other thing, John, and I think it's important for all of us on this stage.
I was in Burlington, Iowa.
And a mom of a service member of ours who served two duties in Iraq said, Governor O' Malley, please, when you're with your other candidates and colleagues on stage, please don't use the term 'boots on the ground'.
Let's don't use the term 'boots on the ground'.
My son is not a pair of boots on the ground.
These are American soldiers and we fail them when we fail to take into account what happens the day after a dictator falls and when we fail to act with a whole of government approach with sustainable development, diplomacy, and our economic power in alignment with our principles.
Well, I think it's perfectly fair to say that we invested quite a bit in development aid.
Some of the bravest people that I had the privilege of working with as secretary of state were our development professionals who went sometimes alone, sometimes with our military, into very dangerous places in Iraq, in Afghanistan, elsewhere.
So, there does need to be a whole of government approach, but just because we're involved and we have a strategy doesn't mean we're going to be able to dictate the outcome.
These are often very long- term kinds of investments that have to be made.
When you talk about the long-term consequences of war, let's talk about the men and women who came home from war.
And I would hope in the midst of all of this discussion, this country makes certain that we do not turn our backs on the men and women who put their lives on the line to defend us, and that we stand with them as they have stood with us.
I don't think we're at war with Islam.
I don't think we're at war with all Muslims.
I think we're at war with jihadists who have --
I think THAT you can talk about Islamists who clearly are also jihadists, but I think it's not particularly helpful to make the case that Senator Sanders was just making that I agree with, that we've got to reach out to Muslim countries.
We've got to have them be part of our coalition.
If they hear people running for president who basically shortcut it to say we are somehow against Islam, that was one of the real contributions, despite all the other problems, that George W. Bush made after 9/11 when he basically said after going to a Mosque in Washington, we are not at war with Islam or Muslims.
We are at war with violent extremism.
We are at war with people who use their religion for purposes of power and oppression.
And, yes, we are at war with those people.
But I don't want us to be painting with too broad a brush.
I think with this kind of barbarism and nihilism, it's very hard to understand, other than the lust for power, the rejection of modernity, the total disregard for human rights, freedom, or any other value that we know and respect.
Historically, it is important to try to understand your adversary in order to figure out how they are thinking, what they will be doing, how they will react.
I plead that it's very difficult when you deal with ISIS and organizations like that whose behavior is so barbaric and so vicious that it doesn't seem to have any purpose other than lust for killing and power and that's very difficult to put ourselves in the other shoe.
I don't think the term is what's important.
What is important to understand is we have organizations, whether it is ISIS or Al Qaida, who do believe we should go back several thousand years.
We should make women third-class citizens, that we should allow children to be sexually assaulted, that they are a danger to modern society.
And that this world, with American leadership, can and must come together to destroy them.
We can do that.
And it requires an entire world to come together, including in a very active way, the Muslim nations.
I believe calling it what it is, is to say radical jihadis.
That's calling it what it is.
But John, let's not fall into the trap of thinking that all of our Muslim American neighbors in this country are somehow our enemies here.
They are our first line of defense.
And we are going to be able to defeat ISIS on the ground there, as well as in this world, because of the Muslim Americans in our country and throughout the world who understand that this brutal and barbaric group is perverting the name of a great world religion.
And now, like never before, we need our Muslim American neighbors to stand up and to -- and to be a part of this.
Yes.
It certainly does cover it.
I would like to see it updated.
No, it would have to go through the Congress, and I know the White House has actually been working with members of Congress.
Maybe now we can get it moving again so that we can upgrade it so that it does include all the tools and everything in our arsenal that we can use to try to work with our allies and our friends, come up with better intelligence.
You know, it is difficult finding intelligence that is actionable in a lot of these places, but we have to keep trying.
And we have to do more to prevent the flood of foreign fighters that have gone to Syria, especially the ones with western passports, that come back.
So there's a lot of work we need to do and I want to be sure what's called the AUMF, has the authority that is needed going forward.
Let me do that but let me pick up on an issue, a very important issue that we have not yet discussed.
This nation is the most powerful military in the world.
We're spending over $600 billion a year on the military and yet, significantly less than 10 percent of that money is used to be fighting international terrorism.
I think we need major reform in the military, making it more cost effective, but also focusing on the real crisis that faces us.
The Cold War is over.
And our focus has got to be on intelligence, increased manpower, fighting internationally targets.
So, in terms of refugees, I believe that the United States has the moral responsibility with Europe, with Gulf countries like Saudi Arabia to make sure that when people leave countries like Afghanistan and Syria with nothing more than the clothing on their back that, of course, we reach out.
Now, what the magic number is, I don't know, because we don't know the extent of the problem.
But I certainly think that the United States should take its full responsibility in helping those people.
John, I was the first person on this stage to say that we should accept the 65,000 Syrian refugees that were fleeing the sort of murder of ISIL, and I believe that that needs to be done with proper screening.
But accommodating 65,000 refugees in our country today, people of 320 million, is akin to making room for 6.5 more people in a baseball stadium with 32,000.
There are other ways to lead and to be a moral leader in this world, rather than at the opposite end of a drone strike.
But I would want to agree with something that Senator Sanders says.
The nature of warfare has changed.
This is not a conflict where we send in the third divisions of Marines.
This is a new era of conflict where traditional ways of huge standing armies are not as -- serve our purposes as well as special ops, better intelligence and being more proactive.
That's what I understand is the request from the international...
I would want us to take our place among the nations of the world to alleviate this sort of death and the specter we saw of little kids' bodies washing up on a beach.
I think that is the number one requirement.
I also said that we should take increased numbers of refugees.
The administration originally said 10.
I said we should go to 65, but only if we have as careful a screening and vetting process as we can imagine, whatever resources it takes because I do not want us to, in any way, inadvertently allow people who wish us harm to come into our country.
But I want to say a quick word about what Senator Sanders and then Governor O'Malley said.
We do have to take a hard look at the defense budget and we do have to figure out how we get ready to fight the adversaries of the future, not the past.
But we have to also be very clear that we do have some continuing challenges.
We've got challenges in the South China Sea because of what China is doing in building up these military installations.
We have problems with Russia.
Just the other day, Russia allowed a television camera to see the plans for a drone submarine that could carry a tactical nuclear weapon.
So we've got to look at the full range and then come to some smart decisions about having more streamlined and focused approach.
Well, first of all, it isn't the middle class.
I have made very clear that hardworking, middle-class families need a raise, not a tax increase.
So we have a lot of work to do to get jobs going again, get incomes rising again.
And I have laid out specific plans -- you can go to my web site, hillaryclinton.com, and read the details.
And I will pay for it by, yes, taxing the wealthy more, closing corporate loopholes, deductions, and other kinds of favorable treatment.
And I can do it without raising the debt, without raising taxes on the middle class and making it reasonably manageable within our budget so that we can be fiscally responsible at the same time.
Well, we're going to have to redo the way the prescription drug industry does business.
For example, it is outrageous that we don't have an opportunity for Medicare to negotiate for lower prices.
In fact, American consumers pay the highest prices in the world for drugs that we help to be developed through the National Institute of Health and that we then tested through the FDA.
So there's more to my plan than just the cap.
We have to go after price gouging and monopolistic practices and get Medicare the authority to negotiate.
That's right.
So while other candidates will talk about the things they would like to do, I actually got these things done in a state that defended not only a AAA bond rating, but the highest median income in America.
I believe that we pay for many of the things that we need to do again as a nation, investing in the skills of our people, our infrastructure, and research and development and also climate change by the elimination of one big entitlement that we can no longer afford as a people, and that is the entitlement that many of our super wealthiest citizens feel they are entitled to pay -- namely, a much lower income tax rate and a lower tax rate on capital gains.
I believe capital gains, for the most part, should be taxed the same way we tax income from hard work, sweat, and toil.
And if we do those things, we can be a country that actually can afford debt-free college again.
Let me put those proposals-- and you're absolutely right.
That is what I want to do.
That is what is going to have to happen, if we want to revitalize and rebuild the crumbling middle class.
In the last 30 years, there has been a massive redistribution of wealth.
And I know that term gets my Republican friends nervous.
The problem is, this redistribution has gone in the wrong direction.
Trillions of dollars have gone from the middle class and working families to the top one-tenth of one percent who have doubled the percentage of wealth they now own.
Yes, I do believe that we must end corporate loopholes, such that major corporations year after year pay virtually zero in federal income tax, because they're stashing the money in the Cayman Islands.
Yes, I do believe there must be a tax on Wall Street speculation.
We bailed out Wall Street.
It's their time to bail out the middle class, help our kids be able to go to college tuition-free.
So we pay for this by do demanding that the wealthiest people and the largest corporations, who have gotten away with murder for years, start paying their fair share.
We haven't come up with an exact number yet, but it will not be as high as the number under Dwight D. Eisenhower, which was 90 percent.
But it will be...
I'm not that much of a socialist compared to Eisenhower.
That's right.
That billionaires pay an effective tax rate lower than nurses or truck drivers.
That makes no sense at all.
There has to be real tax reform, and the wealthiest and large corporations will pay when I'm president.
And in talking to a lot of our neighbors who are in that super wealthy, millionaire and billionaire category, a great numbers of them love their country enough to do more again in order to create more opportunity for America's middle class.
Well, look, I believe that we've made great progress as a country with the Affordable Care Act.
We've been struggling to get this done since Harry Truman.
And it was not only a great accomplishment of the Democratic Party, but of President Obama.
I want to build on and improve the Affordable Care Act.
I would certainly tackle the cost issues, because I think that once the foundation was laid with a system to try to get as many people as possible into it, to end insurance discrimination against people with preexisting conditions or women, for example, that, yes, we were going to have to figure out how to get more competition in the insurance market, how to get the costs of -- particularly, prescription drugs, but other out-of-pocket expenses down.
But I think it's important to understand there's a significant difference that I have with Senator Sanders about how best to provide quality, affordable health care for everyone.
And it's-- it's a worthy debate.
It's an important one that we should be engaged in.
I am on the committee that helped write the Affordable Care Act.
We have made some good progress.
Now what we have to take on is the pharmaceutical industry that is ripping off the American people every single day.
I am proud that I was the first member of Congress to take Americans over the Canadian border to buy breast cancer drugs for one-tenth the price they were paying in the United States.
But at the end of the day, no doubt, the Affordable Care Act is a step forward.
I think we all support it.
I believe we've got to go further.
I want to end the international embarrassment of the United States of America being the only major country on earth that doesn't guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege.
And also -- also, what we should be clear about is we end up spending -- and I think the secretary knows this -- far more per capita on health care than any other major country, and our outcomes, health care outcomes are not necessarily that good.
All right, Nancy, I really wish you'd come back to me on this on this one, John...
Because we have found a way to reduce hospital costs, so whenever we come...
Thank you.
Well, Mr. Cooney, we've actually been focusing on border security to the exclusion of talking about comprehensive immigration reform.
In fact, if more border security and these -- and more and more deportations were going to bring our Republican brothers and sisters to the table, it would have happened long ago.
The fact of the matter is -- and let's say it in our debate, because you'll never hear this from that immigration-bashing carnival barker, Donald Trump, the truth of the matter is...
Fact check me.
Go ahead.
Check it out.
But the truth of the matter is, if we want wages to go up, we've got to get 11 million of our neighbors out of off the book shadow economy, and into the full light of an American economy.
That's what our parents and grandparents always did.
That's what we need to do as a nation.
Yes, we must protect our borders.
But there is no substitute for having comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship for 11 million people, many of whom have known no other country but the United States of America.
Our symbol is the Statue of Liberty.
It is not a barbed wire fence.
Well, first of all, I know that the President has appealed the decision to the Supreme Court.
And my reading of the law and the Constitution convinces me that the President has the authority that he is attempting to exercise with respect to dreamers and their parents, because I think all of us on this stage agree that we need comprehensive immigration reform with a path to citizenship.
Border security has always been a part of that debate.
And it is a fact that the net immigration from Mexico and South has basically zeroed out.
So, what we want to do is to say, look, we have 11 million people who have been here, many of them for decades.
They have children who are doing so well, I've met and worked with dreamers.
I think any parent would be so proud of them.
So let's move toward what we should be doing as a nation and follow the values of our immigration history and begin to make it possible for them to come out of the shadows and to have a future that gives them a full chance of citizenship.
Kathie, let me say this.
You know, no public policy doesn't have, in some cases, negative consequences.
But at the end of the day, what you have right now are millions of Americans working two or three jobs because their wages that they are earning are just too low.
Real inflation accounted for wages has declined precipitously over the years.
So I believe that, in fact, this country needs to move towards a living wage.
It is not a radical idea to say that if somebody works 40 hours a week, that person should not be living in poverty.
It is not a radical idea to say that a single mom should be earning enough money to take care of her kids.
So I believe that over the next few years, not tomorrow, but over the next few years, we have got to move the minimum wage to a living wage, 15 bucks an hour.
And I apologize to nobody for that.
This is what I think -- this is what many economists believe that one of the reasons that real unemployment in this country is 10 percent, one of the reasons that African American youth unemployment and underemployment is 51 percent is the average worker in America doesn't have any disposable income.
You have no disposable income when you are make 10, 12 bucks an hour.
When we put money into the hands of working people, they're going to go out and buy goods, they're going to buy services and they're going to create jobs in doing that.
Kathie, that is the kind of economy I believe, put money in the hands of working people, raise the minimum wage to 15 buck an hour.
Kathie, this was not merely theory in Maryland.
We actually did it.
Not only were we the first state in the nation to pass a living wage.
We were the first to pass a minimum wage.
And the U.S. chamber of commerce, which hardly ever says nice things about Democratic governors anywhere, named our state number one for innovation and entrepreneurship.
We defended the highest median income in the country.
And so, look, the way that -- a stronger middle class is actually the source of economic growth.
And if our middle class makes more money, they spend more money, and our whole economy grows.
We did it, and it worked, and nobody headed for the hills or left the state because of it.
The fact of the matter is, the more our people earn, the more money they spend, and the more our whole economy grows.
That's American capitalism.
Let me just...
Kathie, I think -- Kathie the...
But I do take what Alan Krueger said seriously.
That is why I support a $12 national federal minimum wage.
That is what the Democrats in the Senate have put forward as a proposal.
But I do believe that is a minimum.
And places like Seattle, like Los Angeles, like New York City, they can go higher.
It's what happened in Governor O'Malley's state.
There was a minimum wage at the state level, and some places went higher.
I think that is...
Didn't just happen.
I think that is the smartest way to be able to move forward because if you go to $12 it would be the highest historical average we've ever had.
Come on now.
Yeah, but look.
It should always be going up.
Again, with all do respect to Secretary Clinton...
But you would index it -- you would index it to the median wage.
Of course, you would.
Do the $12 and you would index it.
But I...
... And start taking advice...
That's not fair.
He's a progressive economist.
Well, I think it's pretty clear that they know that I will.
You have two billionaire hedge fund managers who started a super PAC and they're advertising against me in Iowa as we speak.
So they clearly think I'm going to do what I say I will do and you can look at what I did in the Senate.
I looked at ways that the shareholders would have more control over what was going on in that arena.
And specifically said to Wall Street, that what they were doing in the mortgage market was bringing our country down.
I've laid out a very aggressive plan to reign in Wall Street -- not just the big banks.
That's a part of the problem and I am going right at them.
I have a comprehensive, tough plan.
But I went further than that.
We have to go after what is called the shadow banking industry.
Those hedge funds.
Look at what happened in '08, AIG, a big insurance company, Lehman Brothers, an investment bank helped to bring our economy down.
So, I want to look at the whole problem and that's why my proposal is much more comprehensive than anything else that's been put forth.
Here's the story.
I mean, you know, let's not be naive about it.
Why do -- why, over her political career has Wall Street been a major -- the major campaign contributor to Hillary Clinton?
You know, maybe they're dumb and they don't know what they're going to get, but I don't think so.
Here is the major issue when we talk about Wall Street.
It ain't complicated.
You have six financial institutions today that have assets of 56 percent, equivalent to 56 percent of the GDP In America.
They issue two-thirds of the credit cards and one-third of the mortgages.
I have never heard a candidate never, who has received huge amounts of money from oil, from coal, from Wall Street, from the military industrial complex, not one candidate say, oh, these campaign contributions will not influence me.
I'm going to be independent.
Well, why do they make millions of dollars of campaign contributions?
they expect to get something.
Everybody knows that.
Well John, wait a minute.
Wait a minute, he has basically used his answer to impune my integrity.
Let's be frank here.
No, I have not.
CLINTON: Oh, wait a minute, senator.
So, I represented New York, and I represented New York on 9/11 when we were attacked.
Where were we attacked?
We were attacked in downtown Manhattan where Wall Street is.
I did spend a whole lot of time and effort helping them rebuild.
That was good for New York.
It was good for the economy and it was a way to rebuke the terrorists who had attacked our country.
So, you know, it's fine for you to say what you're going to say, but I looked very carefully at your proposal.
Reinstating Glass- Steagall is a part of what very well could help, but it is nowhere near enough.
My proposal is tougher, more effective, and more comprehensive because I go after all of Wall Street not just the big banks.
O' Malley: John, please, it's-- personal privilege, John.
So was I, John.
Let me get a chance to respond.
This issue touches on two broad issues.
It's not just Wall Street.
It's campaign -- a corrupt campaign finance system.
And it is easy to talk the talk about ending Citizens United, but what I think we need to do is show by example that we are prepared to not rely on large corporations and Wall Street for campaign contributions, and that's what I'm doing.
In terms of Wall Street, I respectfully disagree with you, madam secretary, in the sense that the issue here is when you have such incredible power and such incredible wealth.
When you have Wall Street spending $5 billion over a 10-year period to get -- to get deregulated, the only answer they know is break them up, reestablish Glass-Stegall.
Well, you know, governor, I know that when you had a chance to appoint a commissioner for financial regulation, you chose an investment banker in 2010.
So for me, it is looking at what works and what we need to do to try to move past what happened in '08.
And I will go back and say again, AIG was not a big bank.
It had to be bailed out and it nearly destroyed us.
Lehman Brothers was not a big bank.
It was an investment bank.
And its bankruptcy and its failure nearly destroyed us.
So I've said, if the big banks don't play by the rules, I will break them up.
The big banks--
And I will also go after executives who are responsible for the decisions that have such bad consequences for our country.
Look--
I don't know and with all due respect to the secretary, Wall Street played by the rules?
Who are we kidding?
The business model of Wall Street is fraud.
That's what it is.
And we have -- and let me make this promise.
One of the problems we have had -- I think all Americans understand this, is whether it's Republican administrations or Democratic administrations, we have seen Wall Street and Goldman Sachs dominate administrations.
Here's my promise-- Wall Street representatives will not be in my cabinet.
Well, I think that there are different records.
I -- you know, know that Senator Sanders had a different vote than I did when it came to giving immunity to gun makers and sellers.
That was a terrible mistake.
It basically gave the gun lobby even more power to intimidate legislators, not just in Washington but across the country.
That's why I've got such a good plan.
But we have to also go after the gun lobby and 92 percent of Americans agree we should have universal background checks.
Close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole and...
I will do everything I can as president to get that accomplished.
I -- I said I made a mistake on Iraq, and I would love to see Senator Sanders join with some of my colleague in addition the Senate that I see in the audience.
Let's reverse the immunity.
Let's put the gun makers and sellers on notice that they're not going to get away with it.
Let's do more -- let's do more than reverse the immunity.
Let's...
Let me hear if there's any difference between the Secretary and myself.
I want to see us do away with the gun show loophole.
We have to do away with the strawman proposal.
We need radical changes in mental health in America so somebody who is suicidal or homicidal can get the emergency care they need.
We have -- I don't know that there's any disagreement here...
Oh, yes there is.
We have got to come forward with a consensus that in fact will work.
There were parts of that bill which agree with parts -- I disagree.
I am certainly, absolutely, willing to look at that bill again and make sure there's a stronger bill.
John, this is another one of those examples.
Like we have a -- we have a lot of work to do and we're the only nation on the planet that buries as many of our people from gun violence as we do.
In my own state, after the children in that Connecticut classroom were gunned down, we passed comprehensive gun safety legislation with background checks, ban on assault weapons, and Senator, I think we do need to repeal that immunity that you granted to the gun industry.
But Secretary Clinton, you've been on three sides of this.
When you ran in 2000, you said that we needed federal robust regulations.
Then, in 2008, you were portraying yourself as Annie Oakley and saying that we don't need those regulations on the federal level and now you're coming back around here.
So John, there's a big difference between leading by polls and leading with principle.
We got it done in my state by leading with principal and that's what we need to do as a party for comprehensive gun safety.
With all -- with all due respect...
I think it's fair to say that Baltimore is not now one of the safest cities in America, but the issue is...
But it's a lot safer.
It's saved a lot of lives along the way, Senator.
The issue is -- I believe, and I believe this honestly, and I don't know that there's much difference on guns between us.
But I believe coming from a state that has virtually no gun control, I believe that I am in position to reach out to the 60 or 70 percent of the American people who agree with us on those issues.
The problem is...
... people all over this country -- not you, Secretary Clinton -- are shouting at each other.
And what we need to do is bring people together to work on the agreement where there is broad consensus and that's what I intend to do.
I'd like to take a matter of personal privilege here...
But wait, I just want to say this Senator.
There is broad consensus, 92 percent in the most recently poll of Americans want gun safety measures...
Absolutely.
... and 85 percent of gun owners agree.
Yes.
We've got the consensus, what we're lacking is political leadership...
Yes.
... and that's what you and others can start providing in the Senate.
Yes, I agree.
Well, I'm sorry that whoever tweeted that had that impression because I worked closely with New Yorkers after 9/11 for my entire first term to rebuild.
So, yes, I did know people.
I've had a lot of folks give me donations from all kinds of backgrounds say, I don't agree with you on everything, but I like what you do.
I like how you stand up.
I'm going to support you, and I think that is absolutely appropriate.
Well, I -- if I might.
I think the issue here is -- and I applaud Secretary Clinton.
She did.
She's the senator from New York.
She worked -- and many of us supported you -- in trying to rebuild that devastation.
But at the end of the day, Wall Street today has enormous economic and political power.
Their business model is greed and fraud.
And for the sake of our economy, they must -- the major banks must be broken up.
John, I think somewhere between...
Well, (inaudible) the major issue right now is whether or not we reestablish Glass-Steagall.
I led the effort, unfortunately unsuccessfully, against deregulation because I knew when you merge large insurance companies and investment banks and commercial banks it was not going to be good.
The issue now is do we break them ?up do we reestablish Glass-Steagall.
And Secretary Clinton, unfortunately, is on the wrong side.
Well, I'll tell you who is on my side.
Paul Krugman, the Nobel Prize winning economist, who said my plan for what we should do to reign in Wall Street was more comprehensive and better.
Paul Volcker, one of the leading lights of trying to reign in the excesses, has also said he does not support reinstating Glass-Steagall.
So, I mean this may seem like a bit of an arcane discussion.
I have nothing against the passion that my two friends here have about reinstating Glass-Steagall.
I just don't think it would get the job done.
I'm all about making sure we actually get results for whatever we do.
John, there is not a serious economist who would disagree that the six big banks of Wall Street have taken on so much power and that all of us are still on the hook to bail them out on their bad bets.
That's not capitalism, Secretary Clinton.
That's crony capitalism.
That's a wonderful business model.
If you place bad bets, the taxpayers bail you out.
But if you place good ones, you pocket it.
Look, I don't believe there's the model -- there's lots of good people that work in finance, Secretary Sanders, but Secretary Clinton, we need to step up and we need to protect Main Street from Wall Street and you can't do that by -- by campaigning as the candidate of Wall Street.
I am not the candidate of Wall Street...
Let me...
... and I encourage everybody watching this tonight to please, acknowledge that by going online at martinomalley.com and help me wage this campaign for real American capitalism.
Thank you.
Looking forward to it.
Yes.
Right.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
What we need is leadership in this country which revitalizes American democracy, and makes people understand that if they stand up and fight back and take on the billionaire class, we can bring about the change that we need.
If we are not successful, if we continue the same old, same old of Washington being run by corporate lobbyists and big-money interests, nothing changes.
What I am very happy in this campaign that we have had rallies with tens of thousands of people, mostly young people.
What the polls are showing is that we are actually defeating the secretary among younger people.
We're giving young people and working people hope that real change can take place in America.
That's what the political revolution is about.
DICKERSON: A question from Kathie Obradovich.
No.
That's just media stuff.
I was sick and tired of Hillary Clinton's e-mail.
I am still sick and tired of Hillary Clinton's e-mails.
And the issue is, the problem is, the front pages every day were dealing with it.
I didn't know I had so much power.
But after I said that, we're not hearing so much about Hillary Clinton's e-mails.
What part is valid?
What I would like for the media now is for us to be talking about why the middle class is disappearing, why we have more people in jail than any other country, why we have massive levels of income and wealth inequality, and we're the only major country on Earth without paid family and medical leave.
We've gotten off the Hillary's e-mails, good.
Let's go to the major issues facing America.
Let me just...
I agree completely.
I couldn't have said it better myself.
But I did want to -- I wanted to follow up.
Look, we need more Americans to be involved in the political process.
And I give Senator Sanders a lot of credit for really lighting a fire under many people -- young, old, everybody -- who sees a chance to be involved and have their voice heard.
Look at what's happening with the Republicans.
They are doing everything they can to prevent the voices of Americans to be heard.
(APPLAUSE) They're trying to prevent people from registering to vote.
So, we do need to take on the Republicans very clearly and directly.
But the other thing I just wanted quickly to say is, I think President Obama deserves more credit than he gets for what he got done in Washington, despite the Republican obstructionists.
I think after 11 hours, that's pretty clear, yes.
And, you know, I do think it's important to do exactly what Senator Sanders said, and that is to start talking about the issues that the American people really care about, and that they talk to each of us about.
And to contrast, even -- there are differences among us.
You've heard some of those tonight.
I still want to get back to health care, because I think that's a worthy topic to explore.
But the differences among us pale compared to what's happening on the Republican side.
And if you listen to what they say -- and I had a chance over those 11 hours to watch and listen, as well as what I see in their debates -- they are putting forth alarming plans.
I mean, all of us support funding Planned Parenthood.
All of us believe climate change is real.
All of us want equal pay for equal work.
They don't believe in any of that.
So let's focus on what this election is really going to be about.
Well, this is what I would say, and the Congressman was right.
Fifty-one percent of high school African-American graduates are unemployed or underemployed.
We have more people in jail today than any other country on earth.
We're spending $80 billion locking people up, disproportionately Latino and African American.
We need, very clearly, major, major reform in a broken criminal justice system.
From top to bottom.
And that means when police officers out in a community do illegal activity -- kill people who are unarmed who should not be killed, they must be held accountable.
It means that we end minimum sentencing for those people arrested.
It means that we take marijuana out of the federal law as a crime and give states the freedom to go forward with legalizing marijuana.
Well, John, I come from the '60s, a long time ago.
There was a lot of activism on campus -- Civil Rights activism, antiwar activism, women's rights activism -- and I do appreciate the way young people are standing up and speaking out.
Obviously, I believe that on a college campus, there should be enough respect so people hear each other.
But what happened at the university there, what's happening at other universities, I think reflects the deep sense of, you know, concern, even despair that so many young people, particularly of color, have...
You know, I recently met with a group of mothers who lost their children to either killings by police or random killings in their neighborhoods, and hearing their stories was so incredibly, profoundly heartbreaking.
Each one of them, you know, described their child, had a picture.
You know, the mother of the young man with his friends in the car who was playing loud music and, you know, some older white man pulled out a gun and shot him because they wouldn't turn the radio down.
Or a young woman who had been performing at President Obama's second inauguration coming home, absolutely stellar young woman, hanging out with her friends in a park getting shot by a gang member.
And, of course, I met the mothers of Eric Garner and Tamir Rice, and Michael Brown and Trayvon Martin and so many of them who have lost their children.
So, your original question is the right question.
And it's not just a question for parents and grandparents to answer.
It's really a question for all of us to answer, every single one of our children deserves the chance to live up to his or her god-given potential.
And that's what we need to be doing to the best of our ability in our country.
No, it is not throwing -- it is an extraordinary investment for this country.
Germany, many other countries do it already.
In fact, if you remember, 50, 60 years ago, the University of California, City University of New York were virtually tuition-free.
Here is the story -- it's not just the college graduates should be $50,000 or $100,000 in debt.
More importantly, I want kids in Burlington, Vermont, or Baltimore, Maryland, who are in the sixth grade or the eighth grade, who don't have a lot of money, whose parents -- like my parents -- may never have gone to college.
Do you know where I'm going, Kevin?
I want those kids to know that if they study hard, they do their homework, regardless of the income of their families, they will in fact be able to get a college education because we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition-free.
This is revolutionary for education in America.
It will give hope to millions of young people.
Yes.
Well, I think that they're be pretty smart, because I think a lot of the states will do the right thing, and I think those states that don't will pay a heavy penalty.
Bottom line here is, in the year 2015, we should look at a college degree the same way we looked at a high school degree 50 or 60 years ago.
If you want to make it into the middle class -- I'm not saying in all cases -- we need plumbers, and we need carpenters, and electricians, that's for sure, and they should get help as well.
But bottom line now, is in America, in the year 2015, any person who has the ability and the desire should be able to get an education, college education, regardless of the income of his or her family.
And we must substantially lower, as my legislation does, interest rates on student debt.
Okay, thank you.
I have -- look, I would agree with much of what Senator Sanders says, Kevin.
I believe that actually affordable college, debt-free college is the goal that we need to attain as a nation.
And, unlike my two distinguished colleagues on this stage, I actually made college more affordable and was the only state that went four years in a row without a penny's increase to college tuition.
I respectfully disagree with Senator Sander's approach.
I believe that the goal should be debt-free college.
I believe that our Federal Government needs to do more on pell grants.
States need to stop cutting higher education, and we should create a new block grant program that keeps the states' skin in the game, and we should lower these outrageous interest rates that parents and kids are being charged by their own government.
I mean, my dad went to college on a G.I.
Bill after coming home from Japan, flying 33 missions.
My daughters went to college on a mountain of bills.
We were proud of them on graduation day, but we're going to be proud every month for the rest of our natural lives.
It -- it doesn't need to be that way.
We can have debt-free college in the United States.
Kevin, if I could just jump in.
I -- I believe that we should make community college free.
We should have debt-free college if you go to a public college or university.
You should not have to borrow a dime to pay tuition.
I want to use pell grants to help defray the living expenses that often make a difference, whether a young person can stay in school or not.
I disagree with free college for everybody.
I don't think taxpayers should be paying to send Donald Trump's kids to college.
I think it ought to be a compact -- families contribute, kids contribute.
And together we make it possible for a new generation of young people to refinance their debt and not come out with debt in the future.
It's not going to happen tomorrow.
And it's probably not going to happen until we have real campaign finance reform and get rid of all these superpacs, and the power of the insurance companies and the drug companies.
But at the end of the day, Nancy, here is the question -- in this great country of ours, with so much intelligence and so much capability, why do we remain the only major country on earth that does not guarantee health care to all people as a right?
Why do we continue to get ripped off by the drug companies who can charge us any prices they want?
Why is it that we are spending per capita far, far more than Canada, which is 100 miles away from my door, that guarantees health care to all people?
It will not happen tomorrow.
But when millions of people stand up and are prepared to take on the insurance companies and the drug companies, it will happen, and I will lead that effort.
Medicare for all, single-payer system is the way we should go.
No.
Revolution never came.
I waited and I got the scars to show for it.
We now have this great accomplishment known as the Affordable Care Act, and I don't think we should have to be defending it among Democrats.
We ought to be working to improve it and prevent Republicans from both underming it and even repealing it.
And I have to tell you, I would not want -- if I lived in Iowa, Terry Branstad administering my health care.
I -- I think -- I think as Democrats we ought to proudly support the Affordable Care Act, improve it, and make it the model that we know it can be.
Well, let me just say something.
We don't eliminate Medicare.
We expand Medicare to all people.
And we will not, under this proposal, have a situation that we have right now with the Affordable Care Act where you have states like South Carolina, and many other Republican states, that because of their right wing political ideology, are denying millions of people the expansion of Medicaid that we passed in the Affordable Care Act.
Ultimately, we have got to say as a nation, Secretary Clinton, is health care a right of all people or is it not?
I believe it is a right.
May I jump in here for 30 seconds on health care?
Well, there are so many, I don't know where to start.
I guess the one I -- I would pick is the fact that I was part of a very small group that had to advise the president about whether or not to go after Bin Laden.
I spent a lot of time in the situation room as secretary of state and there were many very difficult choices presented to us.
But probably that was the most challenging because there was no certainty attached to it.
The intelligence was by no means absolute.
We had all kinds of questions that we discussed and, you know, at the end, I recommended to the president that we take the chance to do what we could to find out whether that was bin Laden and to finally bring him to justice.
It was an excruciating experience.
I couldn't talk to anybody about it.
In fact, after it happened, the president called my husband -- he called all the former presidents and he said to Bill, "Well I assume Hillary has told you about this."
And Bill said, "No, no, she hasn't."
There was nobody to talk to and it really did give me an insight into the very difficult problems presidents face.
John, I don't think that there is a crisis at the state or local level that really you can point to and say, therefore, I am prepared for the sort of crises that any man or woman who is commander in chief of our country has to deal with.
But I can tell you this.
I can tell you that as a mayor and as a governor, I learned certain disciplines which I believe are directly applicable to that very, very powerful and most important of all jobs in the United States, the president, whose first and primary duty is to protect the people of our country.
You learn that threats always change.
You learn to create a security cabinet.
You learn to create feedback mechanisms.
You learn to constantly evaluate and understand the nature of the threats that you are being faced with.
I have been tried under many different emergencies and I can tell you that in each of those emergencies, whether they were inflicted by drug gangs, whether they were natural emergencies, I knew how to lead and I knew how to govern because I know how to manage people in a crisis and be very clear about the goal of protecting human life.
John, I had the honor of being chairman of the U.S. Senate committee on Veterans' Affairs for two years.
And in that capacity, I met with just an extraordinary group of people from World War II, from korea, vietnam, all of the wars.
People came back from Iraq and Afghanistan without legs, without arms.
And I was determined to do everything that I could to make VA health care the best in the world, to expand benefits to the men and women who put their lives on the line to defending.
We brought together legislation supported by the American Legion, the VFW, the DOD, Vietnam Vets, all of the veterans organizations, which was comprehensive.
Clearly the best piece of veterans' legislation brought forth in decades.
I could only get two Republican votes on that.
We ended up with 56 votes.
We needed 60.
So what I had to do then is go back and start working on a bill that wasn't the bill that I wanted.
Sit down with people like John Mccain.
Sit down with people like Jeff Miller, the Republican chairman of the house, and work on a bill.
It wasn't the bill that I wanted, but yet it turned out to be one of the more significant pieces of veterans' legislation passed in recent history.
So the crisis was I lost what I wanted.
But I had to stand up and come back and get the best that we could.
John, thank you, and to all of the people in Iowa, for the role you have performed in this presidential selection process.
If you believe that our country's problems and the threats that we face in this world can only be met with new thinking, new and fresh approaches, then I ask you to join my campaign.
Go on to martinomalley.com.
No hour is too short, no dollar too small.
If you -- we will not solve our nation's problems by resorting to the divisive ideologies of our past, or by returning to polarizing figures from our past.
We are at the threshold of a new era of American progress, but it's going to require that we act as Americans, based on our principles, here at home, making an economy that works for all of us.
And, also, acting according to our principles and constructing a new foreign policy of engagement and collaboration, and doing a much better job of identifying threats before they back up into military corners.
There is no challenge too great for the United States to confront, provided we have the ability and the courage to put forward new leadership that can move us to those better and safer and more prosperous days.
I need your help.
Thank you very, very much.
Well, thank you very much to CBS and everyone here this evening for giving us another chance to appear before you.
I've heard a lot about me in this debate, and I'm going to keep talking and thinking about all of you because ultimately, I think the president's job is to do everything possible, everything that she can do to lift up the people of this country.
Starting with our children and moving forward.
I've spent my entire life, since I started as a young lawyer for the Children's Defense Fund, trying to figure out how we can even the odds for so many people in America, this great country of ours, who are behind, who don't have a chance.
And that's what I will do as your president.
I will work my heart out.
I need your help.
All of you in Iowa, I need you to caucus for me.
Please go to hillaryclinton.com and be part of making this country what we know it can and should be.
That's not the America that I think we should be.
But in order to bring about the changes that we need, we need a political revolution.
Millions of people are going to have to stand up, turn off the TV, get involved in the political process and tell the big- money interest that we are taking back our country.
Please go to berniesanders.com.
Please become part of the political revolution.
Thank you.
Thank you, Anderson.
Thank you, CNN, and thank you Facebook for organizing this debate.
Not only will Americans be electing a new president next year, we also will be electing a world leader.
Voters should assess the candidate's experience, character and vision for the future as they make this important decision.
I'm the only one running for president that has been a mayor, a United States senator, and a governor.
As mayor, I brought labor peace to my city and kept taxes down.
I was reelected three times.
As a senator, I earned a reputation for courageous votes against the Bush-Cheney tax cuts the favored the wealthy, against the tragedy of the Iraq war, for environmental stewardship, for protection of our civil liberties.
I served on the Foreign Relations Committee and I chaired the Middle East Subcommittee for four years.
As we look to the future, I want to address the income inequality, close the gap between the haves and the have-nots.
I want to address climate change, a real threat to our planet.
And I believe in prosperity through peace.
I want to end these wars.
I look forward to the discussion ahead.
Thank you (APPLAUSE)
Thank you.
You know, people are disgusted with the way that money has corrupted our political process, intimidating incumbents and empowering Wall Street every day, the turnstile government that we see, and also the power of the financial sector in both parties.
They're looking for a leader who understands how the system works, who has not been coopted by it, and also has a proven record of accomplishing different things.
I have a record of working across the political aisle.
I've also spent more than half of my professional life away from politics in the independent world of being an author, a journalist, and a sole proprietor.
In government service, I've fought and bled for our country in Vietnam as a Marine.
I spent years as Assistant Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Navy -- in the Reagan administration.
In the senate, I spoke about economic fairness and social justice from day one.
I also wrote and passed the best piece of veterans education legislation in history, the Post 9/11 G.I.
Bill.
I brought criminal justice reform out of the political shadows and into the national discussion.
I led what later became called the Strategic Pivot to Asia two years before President Obama was elected.
I know where my loyalties are.
My mother grew up in the poverty of east Arkansas chopping cotton, picking strawberries.
Three of her seven siblings died in childhood.
My wife, Hong, came to this country as a refugee from war torn Vietnam -- learned English, a language that was not spoken at home, and earned her way into Cornell Law School.
I have five daughters.
Amy works with disabled veterans, Sarah is an emergency room nurse, Julia is a massage therapist, Emily and Georgia are still in school.
My son Jim fought as an infantry Marine on the bloody streets of Ramadi.
You may be sure that in a Webb administration, the highest priority will be the working people who every day go out and make this country stronger at home, and who give us the right reputation and security overseas under a common sense foreign policy.
My name is Martin O'Malley, former Mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a life long democrat, and most importantly, a husband, and a father.
My wife Katie and I have four great kids, Grace, and Tara, and William and Jack.
And, like you, there is nothing we wouldn't do to give them healthier and better lives.
There are some things that I have learned to do better in life than others.
And, after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to be an effective leader.
Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very clear about my principals.
Thanks to President Obama, our country has come a long way since the Wall Street crash of 2008.
Our country's doing better, we are creating jobs again.
But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now.
For there is a -- deep injustice, an economic injustice that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve itself.
Injustice does not solve itself.
Our economy isn't money, it's people.
It's all of our people, and so we must invest in our country, and the potential of our kids to make college a debt free option for all of our families, instead of settling our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt.
And, we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and make this threat our opportunity.
The future is what we make of it.
We are all in this together.
And, the question in this election is whether you and I still have the ability to give our kids a better future.
I believe we do, that is why I am running for president, and I need your help.
Thank you.
Anderson, thank you very much.
I think most Americans understand that our country today faces a series of unprecedented crises.
The middle class of this country for the last 40 years has been disappearing.
Millions of Americans are working longer hours for lower wages, and yet almost all of the new income and wealth being created is going to the top one percent.
As a result of this disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, our campaign finance system is corrupt and is undermining American democracy.
Millionaires and billionaires are pouring unbelievable sums of money into the political process in order to fund super PACs and to elect candidates who represent their interests, not the interests of working people.
Today, the scientific community is virtually unanimous: climate change is real, it is caused by human activity, and we have a moral responsibility to transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to energy efficiency and sustainable energy and leave this planet a habitable planet for our children and our grandchildren.
What this campaign is about is whether we can mobilize our people to take back our government from a handful of billionaires and create the vibrant democracy we know we can and should have.
Thank you.
Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for hosting this first of the Democratic debates.
I'm Hillary Clinton.
I have been proud and privileged to serve as first lady, as a senator from New York, and as secretary of state.
I'm the granddaughter of a factory worker and the grandmother of a wonderful one-year-old child.
And every day, I think about what we need to do to make sure that opportunity is available not just for her, but for all of our children.
I have spent a very long time -- my entire adult life -- looking for ways to even the odds to help people have a chance to get ahead, and, in particular, to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her God-given potential.
I've traveled across our country over the last months listening and learning, and I've put forward specific plans about how we're going to create more good-paying jobs: by investing in infrastructure and clean energy, by making it possible once again to invest in science and research, and taking the opportunity posed by climate change to grow our economy.
At the center of my campaign is how we're going to raise wages.
Yes, of course, raise the minimum wage, but we have to do so much more, including finding ways so that companies share profits with the workers who helped to make them.
And then we have to figure out how we're going to make the tax system a fairer one.
Right now, the wealthy pay too little and the middle class pays too much.
So I have specific recommendations about how we're going to close those loopholes, make it clear that the wealthy will have to pay their fair share, and have a series of tax cuts for middle-class families.
And I want to do more to help us balance family and work.
I believe in equal pay for equal work for women, but I also believe it's about time we had paid family leave for American families and join the rest of the world.
During the course of the evening tonight, I'll have a chance to lay out all of my plans and the work that I've done behind them.
But for me, this is about bringing our country together again.
And I will do everything I can to heal the divides -- the divides economically, because there's too much inequality; the racial divides; the continuing discrimination against the LGBT community -- so that we work together and, yes, finally, fathers will be able to say to their daughters, you, too, can grow up to be president.
Well, actually, I have been very consistent.
Over the course of my entire life, I have always fought for the same values and principles, but, like most human beings -- including those of us who run for office -- I do absorb new information.
I do look at what's happening in the world.
And I want to make sure that I can look into the eyes of any middle-class American and say, "this will help raise your wages."
And I concluded I could not.
No.
I think that, like most people that I know, I have a range of views, but they are rooted in my values and my experience.
And I don't take a back seat to anyone when it comes to progressive experience and progressive commitment.
You know, when I left law school, my first job was with the Children's Defense Fund, and for all the years since, I have been focused on how we're going to un-stack the deck, and how we're gonna make it possible for more people to have the experience I had.
You know, to be able to come from a grandfather who was a factory worker, a father who was a small business person, and now asking the people of America to elect me president.
I'm a progressive.
But I'm a progressive who likes to get things done.
And I know...
...how to find common ground, and I know how to stand my ground, and I have proved that in every position that I've had, even dealing with Republicans who never had a good word to say about me, honestly.
But we found ways to work together on everything from...
...reforming foster care and adoption to the Children's Health Insurance Program, which insures...
...8 million kids.
So I have a long history of getting things done, rooted in the same values...
...I've always had.
Well, we're gonna win because first, we're gonna explain what democratic socialism is.
Those are some of the principles that I believe in, and I think we should look to countries like Denmark, like Sweden and Norway, and learn from what they have accomplished for their working people.
Well, first of all, let's look at the facts.
The facts that are very simple.
Republicans win when there is a low voter turnout, and that is what happened last November.
Sixty-three percent of the American people didn't vote, Anderson.
Eighty percent of young people didn't vote.
We are bringing out huge turnouts, and creating excitement all over this country.
Democrats at the White House on down will win, when there is excitement and a large voter turnout, and that is what this campaign is doing.
Do I consider myself part of the casino capitalist process by which so few have so much and so many have so little by which Wall Street's greed and recklessness wrecked this economy?
No, I don't.
I believe in a society where all people do well.
Not just a handful of billionaires.
Well, let me just follow-up on that, Anderson, because when I think about capitalism, I think about all the small businesses that were started because we have the opportunity and the freedom in our country for people to do that and to make a good living for themselves and their families.
And I don't think we should confuse what we have to do every so often in America, which is save capitalism from itself.
And I think what Senator Sanders is saying certainly makes sense in the terms of the inequality that we have.
But we are not Denmark.
I love Denmark.
We are the United States of America.
And it's our job to rein in the excesses of capitalism so that it doesn't run amok and doesn't cause the kind of inequities we're seeing in our economic system.
But we would be making a grave mistake to turn our backs on what built the greatest middle class in the history...
... of the world.
I think everybody is in agreement that we are a great entrepreneurial nation.
We have got to encourage that.
Of course, we have to support small and medium-sized businesses.
But you can have all of the growth that you want and it doesn't mean anything if all of the new income and wealth is going to the top 1 percent.
So what we need to do is support small and medium-sized businesses, the backbone of our economy, but we have to make sure that every family in this country gets a fair shake...
... not just for billionaires.
Anderson, you're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
Whether it's...
Did you hear what I said?
On the issues.
I have not changed on the issues.
I was a liberal Republican, then I was an independent, and now I'm a proud Democrat.
But I have not changed on the issues.
And I open my record to scrutiny.
Whether it's on the environment, a woman's right to choose, gay marriage, fiscal responsibility, aversion to foreign entanglements, using the tools of government to help the less fortunate.
Time and time again, I have never changed.
You're looking at a block of granite when it comes to the issues.
So I have not changed.
The party left me.
There's no doubt about that.
There was no room for a liberal moderate Republican in that party.
I even had a primary for my reelection in 2006.
I won it.
But the money poured in to defeat me in Rhode Island as a Republican.
That's what we were up against.
Yes, actually, I believe what she said was that there's a lot of policies that have led to this unrest.
But, Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore in 1999...
Well, let's talk about this a little bit.
One of the things that was not reported during that heartbreaking night of unrest in Baltimore was that arrests had actually fallen to a 38-year low in the year prior to the Freddie Gray's tragic death.
Anderson, when I ran for mayor of Baltimore back in 1999, it was not because our city was doing well.
It was because we allowed ourselves to become the most violent, addicted, and abandoned city in America.
I did not make our city immune to setbacks.
But I attended a lot of funerals, including one for a family of seven who were firebombed in their sleep for picking up the phone in a poor African-American neighborhood and calling the police because of drug dealers on their corner.
We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together.
And the vast majority of them were young and poor and black.
It wasn't easy on any day.
But we saved lives and we gave our city a better future, improving police and community relations every single day that I was in office.
Well, I think the key word in your followup there was the word "settle."
That's true.
It was settled.
Arrests peaked in 2003, Anderson, but they declined every year after that as we restored peace in our poorer neighborhoods so that people could actually walk and not have to worry about their kids or their loved ones of being victims of violent crime.
Look, none of this is easy.
None of us has all the answers.
But together as a city, we saved a lot of lives.
It was about leadership.
It was about principle.
And it was about bringing people together.
Thank you.
No, actually I believe that I am where the Democratic Party traditionally has been.
The Democratic Party, and the reason I've decided to run as a Democrat, has been the party that gives people who otherwise have no voice in the corridors of power a voice.
And that is not determined by race.
And as a clarification, I have always supported affirmative action for African Americans.
That's the way the program was originally designed because of their unique history in this country, with slavery and the Jim Crow laws that followed.
What I have discussed a number of times is the idea that when we create diversity programs that include everyone, quote, "of color," other than whites, struggling whites like the families in the Appalachian mountains, we're not being true to the Democratic Party principle of elevating the level of consciousness among our people about the hardships that a lot of people who happen to be have -- by culture, by the way.
Let's begin, Anderson, by understanding that Bernie Sanders has a D-minus voting rating (ph) from the NRA.
Let's also understand that back in 1988 when I first ran for the United States Congress, way back then, I told the gun owners of the state of Vermont and I told the people of the state of Vermont, a state which has virtually no gun control, that I supported a ban on assault weapons.
And over the years, I have strongly supported instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole.
And I think we've got to move aggressively at the federal level in dealing with the straw man purchasers.
An earlier version of this transcript misquoted Bernie Sanders as saying, "And over the years, I have strongly avoided instant background checks, doing away with this terrible gun show loophole."
He actually said that he has "strongly supported" instant background checks.
Also I believe, and I've fought for, to understand that there are thousands of people in this country today who are suicidal, who are homicidal, but can't get the healthcare that they need, the mental healthcare, because they don't have insurance or they're too poor.
I believe that everybody in this country who has a mental crisis has got to get mental health counseling immediately.
COOPER: Do you want to shield gun companies from lawsuits?
For example, do I think that a gun shop in the state of Vermont that sells legally a gun to somebody, and that somebody goes out and does something crazy, that that gun shop owner should be held responsible?
I don't.
On the other hand, where you have manufacturers and where you have gun shops knowingly giving guns to criminals or aiding and abetting that, of course we should take action.
No, not at all.
I think that we have to look at the fact that we lose 90 people a day from gun violence.
This has gone on too long and it's time the entire country stood up against the NRA.
The majority of our country...
... supports background checks, and even the majority of gun owners do.
Senator Sanders did vote five times against the Brady bill.
Since it was passed, more than 2 million prohibited purchases have been prevented.
He also did vote, as he said, for this immunity provision.
I voted against it.
I was in the Senate at the same time.
It wasn't that complicated to me.
It was pretty straightforward to me that he was going to give immunity to the only industry in America.
Everybody else has to be accountable, but not the gun manufacturers.
And we need to stand up and say: Enough of that.
We're not going to let it continue.
As a senator from a rural state, what I can tell Secretary Clinton, that all the shouting in the world is not going to do what I would hope all of us want, and that is keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have those guns and end this horrible violence that we are seeing.
I believe that there is a consensus in this country.
A consensus has said we need to strengthen and expand instant background checks, do away with this gun show loophole, that we have to address the issue of mental health, that we have to deal with the strawman purchasing issue, and that when we develop that consensus, we can finally, finally do something to address this issue.
And, Anderson, I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done.
Look, it's fine to talk about all of these things -- and I'm glad we're talking about these things -- but I've actually done them.
We passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said.
We actually did it.
And, Anderson, here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real.
Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado.
And their daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora.
Now, to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court, but in this case, you want to talk about a -- a rigged game, Senator?
The game was rigged.
A man had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this -- this person that killed their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn't even ask where it was going.
And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our Congress and we take a backseat.
It's time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation.
I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law and I think we have to take another look at it.
But here is the point, Governor.
We can raise our voices, but I come from a rural state, and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states, whether we like it or not.
Our job is to bring people together around strong, commonsense gun legislation.
I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do the right thing, and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people together.
Senator -- Senator, excuse me.
Senator, it is not about rural -- Senator, it was not about rural and urban.
It's exactly about rural.
Have you ever been to the Eastern Shore?
Have you ever been to Western Maryland?
We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas.
Governor...
And we did it by leading with principle, not by pandering to the NRA and backing down to the NRA.
Well, as somebody who has a D-minus voting record...
And I have an F from the NRA, Senator.
I don't think I am pandering.
But you have not been in the United States Congress.
Well, maybe that's a healthy thing.
And when you want to, check it out.
And if you think -- if you think that we can simply go forward and pass something tomorrow without bringing people together, you are sorely mistaken.
Look, there are two fundamental issues that are involved in this discussion.
We need to pay respect to both of them.
The first is the issue of who should be kept from having guns and using firearms.
And we have done not a good job on that.
A lot of them are criminals.
And a lot of the people are getting killed are members of gangs inside our urban areas.
And a lot of them are mentally incapacitated.
And the shooting in Virginia Tech in '07, this individual had received medical care for mental illness from three different professionals who were not allowed to share the information.
So we do need background checks.
We need to keep the people who should not have guns away from them.
But we have to respect the tradition in this country of people who want to defend themselves and their family from violence.
May I?
People are going back and forth here for 10 minutes here.
There are people at high levels in this government who have bodyguards 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
The average American does not have that, and deserves the right to be able to protect their family.
Yes, I have a good record of voting for gun commonsense safety legislation, but the reality is, despite these tragedies that happen time and time again, when legislators step up to pass commonsense gun safety legislation, the gun lobby moves in and tells the people they're coming to take away your guns.
And, they're successful at it, in Colorado and others states, the legislators that vote for commonsense gun safety measures then get defeated.
I even saw in Rhode Island.
So, I would bring the gun lobby in and say we've got to change this.
Where can we find common ground?
Wayne Lapierre from the NRA, whoever it is, the leaders.
Come one, we've go to change this.
We're not coming to take away your guns, we believe in the Second Amendment, but let's find common ground here.
...Anderson, when the NRA wrote to everyone in our state -- when the NRA wrote to members in our state and told people with hunting traditions lies about what our comprehensive gun safety legislation is, I wrote right back to them and laid out what it actually did.
And that's why, not only did we pass it, but the NRA didn't...
...Excuse me...
...dare to petition a referendum...
...I want to make...
...Because we built a public consensus... COOPER: ...I want to move on to another issue, which is in the headlines right now, another crisis making headlines.
Secretary Clinton, Russia, they're challenging the U.S. in Syria.
According to U.S. intelligence, they've lied about who they're bombing.
You spearheaded the reset with Russia.
Did you underestimate the Russians, and as president, what would your response to Vladimir Putin be right now in Syria?
Well, first of all, we got a lot of business done with the Russians when Medvedev was the president, and not Putin.
We got a nuclear arms deal, we got the Iranian sanctions, we got an ability to bring important material and equipment to our soldiers in Afghanistan.
There's no doubt that when Putin came back in and said he was going to be President, that did change the relationship.
We have to stand up to his bullying, and specifically in Syria, it is important -- and I applaud the administration because they are engaged in talks right now with the Russians to make it clear that they've got to be part of the solution to try to end that bloody conflict.
And, to -- provide safe zones so that people are not going to have to be flooding out of Syria at the rate they are.
And, I think it's important too that the United States make it very clear to Putin that it's not acceptable for him to be in Syria creating more chaos, bombing people on behalf of Assad, and we can't do that if we don't take more of a leadership position, which is what I'm advocating.
Well, let's understand that when we talk about Syria, you're talking about a quagmire in a quagmire.
You're talking about groups of people trying to overthrow Assad, other groups of people fighting ISIS.
You're talking about people who are fighting ISIS using their guns to overthrow Assad, and vice versa.
I'm the former chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, and in that capacity I learned a very powerful lesson about the cost of war, and I will do everything that I can to make sure that the United States does not get involved in another quagmire like we did in Iraq, the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of this country.
We should be putting together a coalition of Arab countries who should be leading the effort.
We should be supportive, but I do not support American ground troops in Syria.
...Well, nobody does.
Nobody does, Senator Sanders.
Well, we just heard Senator Sanders say that it's the worst decision in American history.
That's very significant, the worst decision in American history, I just heard from Senator Sanders.
So, as we look ahead, if you're going to make those poor judgment calls, a critical time in our history, we just finished with the Vietnam era, getting back into another quagmire -- if you're looking ahead, and you're looking at someone who made that poor decision in 2002 to go into Iraq when there was no real evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq -- I know because I did my homework, and, so, that's an indication of how someone will perform in the future.
And that's what's important.
Well, I recall very well being on a debate stage, I think, about 25 times with then Senator Obama, debating this very issue.
After the election, he asked me to become Secretary of State.
He valued my judgment, and I spent a lot of time with him...
...in the Situation Room, going over some very difficult issues.
You know, I -- I agree completely.
We don't want American troops on the ground in Syria.
I never said that.
What I said was we had to put together a coalition -- in fact, something that I worked on before I left the State Department -- to do, and yes, that it should include Arabs, people in the region.
Because what I worry about is what will happen with ISIS gaining more territory, having more reach, and, frankly, posing a threat to our friends and neighbors in the region and far beyond.
So I think while you're talking about the tough decision that President Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden, where I was one of his few advisers, or putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on Iran -- I think I have a lot of evidence...
Let me just respond to something the secretary said.
First of all, she is talking about, as I understand it, a no-fly zone in Syria, which I think is a very dangerous situation.
Could lead to real problems.
Second of all, I heard the same evidence from President Bush and Dick Cheney and Don Rumsfeld about why we should overthrow Saddam Hussein and get involved in the -- I would urge people to go to berniesanders.com, hear what I said in 2002.
And I say, without any joy in my heart, that much of what I thought would happen about the destabilization, in fact, did happen.
So I think... BASH: All right.
I think the president is trying very hard to thread a tough needle here, and that is to support those people who are against Assad, against ISIS, without getting us on the ground there, and that's the direction I believe we should have (inaudible).
Well, obviously, I voted, when President Clinton said, "let's stop ethnic cleansing in Kosovo," I voted for that.
I voted to make sure that Osama bin Laden was held accountable in Afghanistan.
When our country is threatened, or when our allies are threatened, I believe that we need coalitions to come together to address the major crises of this country.
I do not support the United States getting involved in unilateral action.
I don't believe that any...
Anderson, no president -- no commander in chief -- should take the military option off the table, even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option.
What disturbed people so much about -- and I would agree with Senator Sanders on this -- leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us, as a people, that there were weapons of mass destruction there was -- was one of the worst blunders in modern American history.
But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls.
And I remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion.
People were talking at -- and saying, "it'll take us just a couple years to rebuild democracy," and I thought, "has this world gone mad?"
Whenever we go -- and contrary to John Quincy Adams' advice -- "searching the world for monsters to destroy," and when we use political might to take a -- at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves, and we hurt our (inaudible).
I believe that, as president, I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool.
I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria, at this time, actually, Secretary, would be a mistake.
You have to enforce no-fly zones, and I believe, especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident that we would deeply regret.
I support President Obama.
I think we have to play a long game, and I think, ultimately -- you want to talk about blunders?
I think Assad's invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder.
Well, first of all, I...
Anderson, can I come into this discussion at some point?
Thank you.
I've been standing over here for about ten minutes, trying.
It's just -- it's gone back and forth over there.
Well, I am in the middle, here, and...
Lots of things coming from all directions.
You got the lucky (inaudible).
You know, I have to say, I was very pleased when Governor O'Malley endorsed me for president in 2008, and I enjoyed his strong support in that campaign.
And I consider him, obviously, a friend.
Let me say -- because there's a lot of loose talk going on here -- we are already flying in Syria just as we are flying in Iraq.
The president has made a very tough decision.
What I believe and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone -- which of course would be in a coalition -- be put on the table is because I'm trying to figure out what leverage we have to get Russia to the table.
You know, diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution.
It's about how you balance the risks.
And I think we have an opportunity here -- and I know that inside the administration this is being hotly debated -- to get that leverage to try to get the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region and begin to move toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria.
Look, let's start -- I've been trying to get in this conversation for about 10 minutes -- let's start with why Russia is in Syria right now.
There are three strategic failings that have allowed this to occur.
The first was the invasion of Iraq, which destabilized ethnic elements in Iraq and empowered Iran.
The second was the Arab Spring, which created huge vacuums in Libya and in Syria that allowed terrorist movements to move in there.
And the third was the recent deal allowing Iran to move forward and eventually acquire a nuclear weapon, which sent bad signals, bad body language into the region about whether we are acquiescing in Iran becoming a stronger piece of the formula in that part of the world.
Now, I say this as someone who spent five years in the Pentagon and who opposed the war in Iraq, whose son fought in Iraq, I've fought in Vietnam.
But if you want a place where we need to be in terms of our national strategy, a focus, the greatest strategic threat that we have right now is resolving our relationship with China.
And we need to do this because of their aggression in the region.
We need to do it because of the way they treat their own people.
And I would say this.
I've been waiting for 10 minutes.
I will say this.
I will -- well, you've let a lot of people go over their time.
I would say this...
... to the unelected, authoritarian government of China: You do not own the South China Sea.
You do not have the right to conduct cyber warfare against tens of millions of American citizens.
And in a Webb administration, we will do something about that.
Pardon me?
Well, I think Mr. Putin is going to regret what he is doing.
I think that when he gets into that...
Well, I think he's already regretting what he did in Crimea and what he is doing in the Ukraine.
I think he is really regretting the decline of his economy.
And I think what he is trying to do now is save some face.
But I think when Russians get killed in Syria and when he gets bogged down, I think the Russian people are going to give him a message that maybe they should come home, maybe they should start working with the United States to rectify the situation now.
Well, let's remember what was going on.
We had a murderous dictator, Gadhafi, who had American blood on his hands, as I'm sure you remember, threatening to massacre large numbers of the Libyan people.
We had our closest allies in Europe burning up the phone lines begging us to help them try to prevent what they saw as a mass genocide, in their words.
And we had the Arabs standing by our side saying, "We want you to help us deal with Gadhafi."
Our response, which I think was smart power at its best, is that the United States will not lead this.
We will provide essential, unique capabilities that we have, but the Europeans and the Arabs had to be first over the line.
We did not put one single American soldier on the ground in Libya.
And I'll say this for the Libyan people...
But let -- I'll get to that.
But I think it's important, since I understand Senator Webb's very strong feelings about this, to explain where we were then and to point out that I think President Obama made the right decision at the time.
And the Libyan people had a free election the first time since 1951.
And you know what, they voted for moderates, they voted with the hope of democracy.
Because of the Arab Spring, because of a lot of other things, there was turmoil to be followed.
But unless you believe the United States should not send diplomats to any place that is dangerous, which I do not, then when we send them forth, there is always the potential for danger and risk.
Can I...
Anderson, I think we are learning...
Anderson, I think there's lessons to be learned from Benghazi.
And those lessons are that we need to do a much better job as a nation of having human intelligence on the ground so that we know who the emerging next generation leaders are that are coming up to replace a dictator when his time on this planet ends.
And I believe that's what Chris Stevens was trying to do.
But he did not have the tools.
We have failed as a country to invest in the human intelligence that would allow us to make not only better decisions in Libya, but better decisions in Syria today.
And it's a huge national security failing.
Thank you.
Everybody makes their decisions when the time there is conscription.
And as long as they go through the legal process that our country requires, I respect that.
And it would be for the voters to decide whether Senator Sanders or anyone else should be president.
I will say this, coming from the position that I've come from, from a military family, with my brother a marine, my son was a marine in Iraq, I served as a marine, spending five years in the Pentagon, I am comfortable that I am the most qualified person standing up here today to be your commander-in-chief.
Well, first of all, let me applaud my good friend Jim Webb for his service to this country in so many ways.
Jim and I, under Jim's leadership, as he indicated, passed the most significant veterans education bill in recent history.
We followed suit with a few years later passing, under my leadership, the most significant veterans' health care legislation in the modern history of this country.
When I was a young man -- I'm not a young man today.
Not the brave men like Jim who fought in that war, but the policy which got us involved in that war.
That was my view then.
I am not a pacifist, Anderson.
I supported the war in Afghanistan.
I supported President Clinton's effort to deal with ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.
I support air strikes in Syria and what the president is trying to do.
Yes, I happen to believe from the bottom of my heart that war should be the last resort that we have got to exercise diplomacy.
But yes, I am prepared to take this country into war if that is necessary.
OK.
I just have to answer one thing that Senator Webb said about the Iran deal, because I'm a strong proponent of what President Obama -- and he said that because of that the Iran deal that enabled Russia to come in.
No, that's not true, Senator Webb.
I respect your foreign policy chops.
But Russia is aligned with Iran and with Assad and the Alawite Shias in Syria.
So that Iran deal did not allow Russia to come in.
I believe that the signal that we sent to the region when the Iran nuclear deal was concluded was that we are accepting Iran's greater position on this very important balance of power, among our greatest ally Israel, and the Sunnis represented by the Saudi regime, and Iran.
It was a position of weakness and I think it encouraged the acts that we've seen in the past several weeks.
It's certainly the chaos in the Middle East.
There's no doubt about it.
And it all started with the Iraq invasion.
I believe that nuclear Iran remains the biggest threat, along with the threat of ISIL; climate change, of course, makes cascading threats even more (inaudible).
I -- I think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear weapons, nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands.
I know the terrorists are constantly seeking it, and that's why we have to stay vigilant, but also united around the world to prevent that.
The scientific community is telling us that if we do not address the global crisis of climate change, transform our energy system away from fossil fuel to sustainable energy, the planet that we're going to be leaving our kids and our grandchildren may well not be habitable.
That is a major crisis.
Our greatest long-term strategic challenge is our relation with China.
Our greatest day-to-day threat is cyber warfare against this country.
Our greatest military-operational threat is resolving the situations in the Middle East.
And I have been as transparent as I know to be, turning over 55,000 pages of my e-mails, asking that they be made public.
And you're right.
I am going to be testifying.
I've been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public, which was not originally agreed to.
But let's just take a minute here and point out that this committee is basically an arm of the Republican National Committee.
It is a partisan vehicle, as admitted by the House Republican majority leader, Mr. McCarthy, to drive down my poll numbers.
Big surprise.
And that's what they have attempted to do.
I am still standing.
I am happy to be part of this debate.
And I intend to keep talking about the issues that matter to the American people.
You know, I believe strongly that we need to be talking about what people talk to me about, like how are we going to make college affordable?
How are we going to pay down student debt?
How are we going to get health care for everybody...
Well, I never said it wasn't legitimate.
I said that I have answered all the questions and I will certainly be doing so again before this committee.
But I think it would be really unfair not to look at the entire picture.
This committee has spent $4.5 million of taxpayer money, and they said that they were trying to figure out what we could do better to protect our diplomats so that something like Benghazi wouldn't happen again.
There were already seven committee reports about what to do.
So I think it's pretty clear what their obvious goal is.
But I'll be there.
I'll answer their questions.
But tonight, I want to talk not about my e-mails, but about what the American people want from the next president of the United States.
Let me say this.
Let me say -- let me say something that may not be great politics.
But I think the secretary is right, and that is that the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails.
Thank you.
Me, too.
Me, too.
You know?
The middle class -- Anderson, and let me say something about the media, as well.
I go around the country, talk to a whole lot of people.
Middle class in this country is collapsing.
We have massive wealth and income inequality.
Our trade policies have cost us millions of decent jobs.
The American people want to know whether we're going to have a democracy or an oligarchy as a result of Citizens Union.
Enough of the e-mails.
Let's talk about the real issues facing America.
Thank you, Bernie.
Thank you.
Absolutely.
We have to repair American credibility after we told the world that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, which he didn't.
So there's an issue of American credibility out there.
So any time someone is running to be our leader, and a world leader, which the American president is, credibility is an issue out there with the world.
And we have repair work to be done.
I think we need someone that has the best in ethical standards as our next president.
That's how I feel.
No.
I believe that now that we're finally having debates, Anderson, that we don't have to be defined by the email scandal, and how long -- what the FBI's asking about.
Instead, we can talk about affordable college, making college debt free, and all the issues.
Which is why -- and I see the chair of the DNC here, look how glad we are actually to be talking about the issues that matter the most to people around the kitchen table.
We need to get wages to go up, college more affordable...
...we need to make American 100 percent clean electric by 2050.
Black lives matter.
And the reason -- the reason those words matter is the African American community knows that on any given day some innocent person like Sandra Bland can get into a car, and then three days later she's going to end up dead in jail, or their kids...
...are going to get shot.
We need to combat institutional racism from top to bottom, and we need major, major reforms in a broken criminal justice system...
...In which we have more people in jail than China.
And, I intended to tackle that issue.
To make sure that our people have education and jobs rather than jail cells.
Anderson, the point that the Black Lives Matter movement is making is a very, very legitimate and serious point, and that is that as a nation we have undervalued the lives of black lives, people of color.
When I ran for Mayor of Baltimore -- and we we burying over 350 young men ever single year, mostly young, and poor, and black, and I said to our legislature, at the time when I appeared in front of them as a mayor, that if we were burying white, young, poor men in these number we would be marching in the streets and there would be a different reaction.
Black lives matter, and we have a lot of work to do to reform our criminal justice system, and to address race relations in our country.
Well, I think that President Obama has been a great moral leader on these issues, and has laid out an agenda that has been obstructed by the Republicans at every turn, so...
...So, what we need to be doing is not only reforming criminal justice -- I have talked about that at some length, including things like body cameras, but we also need to be following the recommendations of the commissioner that President Obama empanelled on policing.
There is an agenda there that we need to be following up on.
Similarly, we need to tackle mass incarceration, and this may be the only bi-partisan issue in the congress this year.
We actually have people on both sides of the aisle who have reached the same conclusion, that we can not keep imprisoning more people than anybody else in the world.
But, I believe that the debate, and the discussion has to go further, Anderson, because we've got to do more about the lives of these children.
That's why I started off by saying we need to be committed to making it possible for every child to live up to his or her god given potential.
That is...
...really hard to do if you don't have early childhood education...
...if you don't have schools that are able to meet the needs of the people, or good housing, there's a long list...
...We need a new New Deal for communities of color...
I hope I can get that kind of time here.
As a President of the United States, every life in this country matters.
At the same time, I believe I can say to you, I have had a long history of working with the situation of African Americans.
We're talking about criminal justice reform, I risked my political life raising the issue of criminal justice reform when I ran for the Senate in Virginia in 2006.
I had democratic party political consultants telling me I was committing political suicide.
We led that issue in the congress.
We started a national debate on it.
And it wasn't until then that the Republican Party started joining in.
I also represented a so-called war criminal, an African American Marine who was wounded -- who was convicted of murder in Vietnam, for six years.
He took his life three years into this.
I cleared his name after -- after three years.
And I put the African American soldier on the Mall.
I made that recommendation and fought for it.
So, if you want someone who is -- can stand up in front of you right now and say I have done the hard job, I have taken the risks, I am your person.
Well, first of all, let's remember where we were when Bush left office.
We were losing 800,000 jobs a month.
And I know my Republican friends seem to have some amnesia on this issue, but the world's financial crisis was on -- the world's financial markets system was on the verge of collapse.
That's where we were.
Are we better off today than we were then?
Absolutely.
But the truth is that for the 40 years, the great middle class of this country has been disappearing.
And in my view what we need to do is create millions of jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure; raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour; pay equity for women workers; and our disastrous trade policies, which have cost us millions of jobs; and make every public college and university in this country tuition free.
Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed.
Neither of us came from wealthy families and we've worked really hard our entire lives.
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had, to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs.
I have a five point economic plan, because this inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points.
It's absolutely right.
It hasn't been this bad since the 1920s.
But if you look at the Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no comparison.
Yes.
Anderson, I want to associate myself with many of the items that the senator from Vermont mentioned, and I actually did them in our state.
We raised the minimum wage, passed the living wage, invested more in infrastructure, went four years in a row without a penny's increase in college tuition.
But there's another piece that Senator Sanders left out tonight, but he's been excellent about underscoring that.
And that is that we need to separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money, from the commercial banking -- namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
Secretary Clinton mentioned my support eight years ago.
And Secretary, I was proud to support you eight years ago, but something happened in between, and that is, Anderson, a Wall Street crash that wiped out millions of jobs and millions of savings for families.
And we are still just as vulnerable Paul Volcker says today.
We need to reinstate Glass-Steagall and that's a huge difference on this stage among us as candidates.
Well, my plan is more comprehensive.
And frankly, it's tougher because of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail.
We can never let the American taxpayer and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw.
But we also have to worry about some of the other players -- AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman Brothers, an investment bank.
There's this whole area called "shadow banking."
That's where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from.
So I'm with both Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks.
And the plan that I have put forward would actually empower regulators to break up big banks if we thought they posed a risk.
But I want to make sure we're going to cover everybody, not what caused the problem last time, but what could cause it next time.
Well, that's not true.
Let us be clear that the greed and recklessness and illegal behavior of Wall Street, where fraud is a business model, helped to destroy this economy and the lives of millions of people.
Check the record.
In the 1990s -- and all due respect -- in the 1990s, when I had the Republican leadership and Wall Street spending billions of dollars in lobbying, when the Clinton administration, when Alan Greenspan said, "what a great idea it would be to allow these huge banks to merge," Bernie Sanders fought them, and helped lead the opposition to deregulation.
Today, it is my view that when you have the three...
...largest banks in America -- are much bigger than they were when we bailed them out for being too big to fail, we have got to break them up.
Yeah.
You know, I -- I respect the passion an intensity.
I represented Wall Street, as a senator from New York, and I went to Wall Street in December of 2007 -- before the big crash that we had -- and I basically said, "cut it out!
Quit foreclosing on homes!
Quit engaging in these kinds of speculative behaviors."
I took on the Bush administration for the same thing.
So I have thought deeply and long about what we're gonna do to do exactly what I think both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk.
And my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail.
Nobody went to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid...
...and would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks.
But I'm telling you -- I will say it tonight.
If only you look at the big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees.
Bernie, say my name so I can get into this.
I will, just a second.
OK.
Thank you.
I'll tell him.
In my view, Secretary Clinton, you do not -- Congress does not regulate Wall Street.
Wall Street regulates Congress.
And we have gotta break off these banks.
Going to them...
So...
...and saying, "please, do the right thing"...
...no, that's not what...
...is kind of naive.
...that -- I think Dodd-Frank was a very...
Anderson, I need to jump in (inaudible).
...good start, and I think that we have to implement it.
We have to prevent the Republicans from ripping it apart.
We have to save the Consumer Financial Protection board, which is finally beginning to act to protect consumers.
We have work to do.
You've got no argument from me.
But I know, if we don't come in with a very tough and comprehensive approach, like the plan I'm recommending, we're gonna be behind instead of ahead...
...on what the next crisis could be.
Anderson, look, this is -- the big banks -- I mean, once we repealed Glass-Steagall back in the late 1999s (ph), the big banks, the six of them, went from controlling, what, the equivalent of 15 percent of our GDP to now 65 percent of our GDP.
And -- (inaudible) right before this debate, Secretary Clinton's campaign put out a lot of reversals on positions on Keystone and many other things.
But one of them that we still have a great difference on, Madam Secretary, is that you are not for Glass-Steagall.
You are not for putting a firewall between this speculative, risky shadow banking behavior.
I am, and the people of our country need a president who's on their side, willing to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
We have to fulfill...
...our promise.
Well, you know, everybody on this stage has changed a position or two.
We've been around a cumulative quite some period of time.
But I have been on the forefront of dealing with climate change, starting in 2009, when President Obama and I crashed (ph) a meeting with the Chinese and got them to sign up to the first international agreement to combat climate change that they'd ever joined.
So I'm...
...not taking a back seat to anybody on my values...
...my principles and the results that I get.
Well, I remember that meeting very well.
I remember it like it was yesterday.
Hank Paulson, Bernanke came in, and they say, "guys, the economy is going to collapse because Wall Street is going under.
It's gonna take the economy with them."
And you know what I said to Hank Paulson?
I said, "Hank, your guys -- you come from Goldman Sachs.
Your millionaire and billionaire friends caused this problem.
How about your millionaire and billionaire friends paying for the bailout, not working families in this country?"
So to answer your question, no, I would not have let the economy collapse.
But it was wrong to ask the middle class to bail out Wall Street.
And by the way, I want Wall Street now to help kids in this country go to college, public colleges and universities, free with a Wall Street speculation tax.
There is a reality that I think we all need to recognize with respect to the power of the financial sector.
And let me just go back a minute and say that on this TARP program, I introduced a piece of legislation calling for a windfall profits tax on the executives of any of these companies that got more than $5 billion, that it was time for them, once they got their compensation and their bonus, to split the rest of the money they made with the nurses and the truck drivers and the soldiers who bailed them out.
With respect to the financial sector, I mean, I know that my time has run out but in speaking of changing positions and the position on how this debate has occurred is kind of frustrating because unless somebody mentions my name I can't get into the discussion.
All right.
Well, I'm trying to set a mark here so maybe we can get into a little more later on.
This hasn't been equal time.
But if you want to look at what has happened, if we look at the facts in terms of how we're going to deal with this, since that crash, in the last 10 years, the amount of the world's capital economy that Wall Street manages has gone from 44 percent to 55 percent.
That means the Wall Street money managers are not risking themselves as the same way the American people are when they're going to get their compensation.
They're managing money from all over the world.
We have to take that into consideration when we're looking at ways to regulate it.
The Glass-Steagall was my very first vote, I'd just arrived, my dad had died in office, I was appointed to the office, it was my very first vote.
I'd just arrived at the Senate.
I think we'd get some takeovers, and that was one.
It was my very first vote, and it was 92-5.
It was the...
But let me just say...
I think you're being a little rough.
I'd just arrived at the United States Senate.
I'd been mayor of my city.
My dad had died.
I'd been appointed by the governor.
It was the first vote and it was 90-5, because it was a conference report.
But let me just say about income inequality.
We've had a lot of talk over the last few minutes, hours, or tens of minutes, but no one is saying how we're going to fix it.
And it all started with the Bush tax cuts that favored the wealthy.
So let's go back to the tax code.
And 0.6 percent of Americans are at the top echelon, over 464,000, 0.6 Americans.
That's less than 1 percent.
But they generate 30 percent of the revenue.
And they're doing fine.
So there's still a lot more money to be had from this top echelon.
I'm saying let's have another tier and put that back into the tax bracket.
And that will generate $42 billion.
And then we can help the middle class and hard-earning Americans -- hard-working Americans.
Well, let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today -- taxes in the future than they're paying today.
But in terms of education, this is what I think.
This is the year 2015.
A college degree today, Dana, is the equivalent of what a high school degree was 50 years ago.
And what we said 50 years ago and a hundred years ago is that every kid in this country should be able to get a high school education regardless of the income of their family.
I think we have to say that is true for everybody going to college.
I think we don't need a complicated system, which the secretary is talking about, the income goes down, the income goes down, if you're poor you have to work, and so forth and so on.
I pay for my program, by the way, through a tax on Wall Street speculation, which will not only make public colleges and universities tuition-free, it will substantially lower interest rates on college debt, a major crisis in this country.
Well, let me address college affordability, because I have a plan that I think will really zero in on what the problems are.
First, all the 40 million Americans who currently have student debt will be able to refinance their debt to a low interest rate.
That will save thousands of dollars for people who are now struggling under this cumbersome, burdensome college debt.
As a young student in Nevada said to me, the hardest thing about going to college should not be paying for it.
So then we have to make it more affordable.
How do we make it more affordable?
My plan would enable anyone to go to a public college or university tuition free.
You would not have to borrow money for tuition.
But I do believe -- and maybe it's because I worked when I went through college; I worked when I went through law school -- I think it's important for everybody to have some part of getting this accomplished.
That's why I call it a compact.
But, yes, I would like students to work 10 hours a week...
... in order to make it possible for them to afford their education.
And I want colleges to get their costs down.
They are outrageously high in what they're charging.
Well, I fully support Social Security.
And the most important fight we're going to have is defending it against continuing Republican efforts to privatize it.
I want to enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of Social Security.
We have a lot of women on Social Security, particularly widowed and single women who didn't make a lot of money during their careers, and they are impoverished, and they need more help from the Social Security system.
And I will focus -- I will focus on helping those people who need it the most.
And of course I'm going to defend Social Security.
I'm going to look for ways to try to make sure it's solvent into the future.
And we also need to talk about health care at some time, because we agree on the goals, we just disagree on the means.
When the Republicans -- when the Republicans in the Congress and some Democrats were talking about cutting Social Security and benefits for disabled veterans, for the so-called chained CPI, I founded a caucus called the Defending Social Security Caucus.
I didn't leave anybody at the altar.
I voted against that piece of legislation because it had guest-worker provisions in it which the Southern Poverty Law Center talked about being semi-slavery.
Guest workers are coming in, they're working under terrible conditions, but if they stand up for their rights, they're thrown out of the country.
I was not the only progressive to vote against that legislation for that reason.
Tom Harkin, a very good friend of Hillary Clinton's and mine, one of the leading labor advocates, also voted against that.
I know that.
But point being is that progressives did vote against that for that reason.
My view right now -- and always has been -- is that when you have 11 million undocumented people in this country, we need comprehensive immigration reform, we need a path toward citizenship, we need to take people out of the shadows.
And Juan Carlos -- Juan Carlos...
Well, first of all, I want to make sure every child gets health care.
That's why I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program, and I want to support states that are expanding health care and including undocumented children and others.
I want to open up the opportunity for immigrants to be able to buy in to the exchanges under the Affordable Care Act.
I think to go beyond that, as I understand what Governor O'Malley has recommended, so that they would get the same subsidies.
I think that is -- it raises so many issues.
It would be very difficult to administer, it needs to be part of a comprehensive immigration reform, when we finally do get to it.
Juan Carlos, I think what you've heard up here is some of the old thinking on immigration reform, and that's why it's gridlocked.
We need to understand that our country is stronger in every generation by the arrival of new American immigrants.
That is why I have put out a policy for comprehensive immigration reform, that is why I would go further than President Obama has on DACA, and DAPA.
I mean, we are a nation of immigrants, we are made stronger by immigrants.
Do you think for a second that simply because somebody's standing in a broken que on naturalization they're not going to go to the hospital, and that care isn't going to fall on to our insurance rates?
I am for a generous, compassionate America that says we're all in this together.
We need comprehensive
...immigration reform.
It'll make wages go up in America $250 for every year...
I wouldn't have a problem with that.
Let me start by saying my wife is an immigrant.
She was a refugee, her family escaped from Vietnam on a boat-- her entire extended family, after the communists took over, when hundreds of thousands of people were out there and thousands of them were dying.
Went to two refugee camps, she never spoke English in her home, and she ended, as I said, graduating from Cornell Law School.
That's not only American dream, that's a value that we have with a good immigration system in place.
No country has -- is a country without defining its borders.
We need to resolve this issue.
I actually introduced an amendment in the 2007 immigration bill...
...Giving a pathway to citizenship to those people who had come here, and put down their roots, and met as a series of standards...
...lost (ph) -- I introduced that in 2007 -- We need a comprehensive reform, and we need to be able to define our borders.
I want to follow up because I think underneath Juan Carlos' important questions, there is such a difference between everything you're hearing here on this stage, and what we hear from the Republicans.
Here.
Here.
Demonize hard-working immigrants who have insulted them.
You know, I came to Las Vegas in, I think, May.
Early may.
Met with a group of DREAMers, I wish everybody in America could meet with this young people, to hear their stories, to know their incredible talent, their determination, and that's why I would go further...
...than even the executive orders that President Obama has signed when I'm president.
My plan would support any state that takes that position, and would work with those states and encourage more states to do the same thing.
If their states agree, then we want more states to do the same thing.
Anderson, we actually did this in my state of Maryland.
We passed...
We passed a state version of the DREAM Act...
...And a lot of the xenophobes, the immigrant haters like some that we've heard like, Donald Trump, that carnival barker in the Republican party...
Tried to mischaracterize it as free tuition for illegal immigrants.
But, we took our case to the people when it was petitioned to referendum, and we won with 58 percent of the vote.
The more our children learn, the more they will earn, and that's true of children who have yet to be naturalized...
...but will become American citizens...
Well, I was chairman for two years, and when I was chairman we did take action.
What we did is pass a $15 billion dollar piece of legislation which brought in many, many new doctors, and nurses into the V.A.
so that veterans in this country could get the health care when they needed it, and not be on long waiting lines.
And, the other part of that legislation said that if a veteran is living more than 40 miles away from a V.A.
facility, that veteran could get health care from the community health center, or the private sector.
As a result of that legislation, we went further in than any time in recent history in improving health care for the men and women of this country who put their lives on the line to defend them.
No, that was another 99 to one vote for the Patriot Act, and it was seen as at the time modernizing our ability to do what we've always done to tap phones which always required a warrant.
And I voted for that.
No, no.
As long as you're getting a warrant, I believe that under the Fourth Amendment, you should be able to do surveillance, but you need a warrant.
That's what the Fourth Amendment says.
And in the Patriot Act, section 215 started to get broadened too far.
So I would be in favor of addressing and reforming section 215 of the Patriot Act.
No, I don't.
I think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed.
And it is true that it did require that there be a process.
What happened, however, is that the Bush administration began to chip away at that process.
And I began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in.
We always have to keep the balance of civil liberties, privacy and security.
It's not easy in a democracy, but we have to keep it in mind.
It was 99 to one and I was maybe the one.
I don't know.
I'm sorry?
Absolutely.
Of course.
That is unacceptable to me.
But it's not just government surveillance.
I think the government is involved in our e-mails; is involved in our websites.
Corporate America is doing it as well.
If we are a free country, we have the right to be free.
Yes, we have to defend ourselves against terrorism, but there are ways to do that without impinging on our constitutional rights and our privacy rights.
Anderson, the NSA...
No, I would bring him home.
The courts have ruled that what he did -- what he did was say the American...
... the American government was acting illegally.
That's what the federal courts have said; what Snowden did showed that the American government was acting illegally for the Fourth Amendment.
So I would bring him home.
Anderson, Snowden put a lot of Americans' lives at risk.
Snowden broke the law.
Whistleblowers do not run to Russia and try to get protection from Putin.
If he really believes that, he should be back here.
I think Snowden played a very important role in educating the American people to the degree in which our civil liberties and our constitutional rights are being undermined.
He did -- he did break the law, and I think there should be a penalty to that.
But I think what he did in educating us should be taken into consideration before he is (inaudible).
I -- well, I -- I would leave his ultimate judgment to the legal system.
Here's what I do believe.
We have a serious problem in terms of the collection of personal information in this country.
And one of the things that I did during the FISA bill in 2007, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, was introduce with Russ Feingold two amendments basically saying, "We understand the realities of how you have to collect this broad information in the Internet age, but after a certain period of time, you need to destroy the personal information that you have if people have not been brought -- if criminal justice proceedings have not been brought against them."
We've got a vast data bank of information that is ripe for people with bad intentions to be able to use.
And they need to be destroyed.
Certainly, ending the wars.
We've got to stop these wars.
You have to have a new dynamic, a new paradigm.
We just spent a half-billion dollars arming and training soldiers, the rebel soldiers in Syria.
They quickly join the other side.
We bombed the...
I'd like to finish my question -- my answer.
And also we just bombed a hospital.
We've had drone strikes that hit civilian weddings.
So I would change how we -- our approach to the Middle East.
We need a new paradigm in the Middle East.
I would follow through on the promise that the American people thought we made as Democratic Party, to protect the Main Street economy from recklessness on Wall Street.
I would push to separate out these too-big-to-jail, too-big-to-fail banks, and put in place Glass-Steagall, a modern Glass-Steagall that creates a firewall so that this wreckage of our economy can never happen again.
Well, I think that's pretty obvious.
I think being the first woman president would be quite a change from the presidents we've had up until this point, including President Obama.
Well, there's a lot that I would like to do to build on the successes of President Obama, but also, as I'm laying out, to go beyond.
And that's in my economic plans, how I would deal with the prescription drug companies, how I would deal with college, how I would deal with a full range of issues that I've been talking about throughout this campaign to go further.
I have a lot of respect for president Obama.
I have worked with him time and time again on many, many issues.
But here's where I do disagree.
I believe that the power of corporate America, the power of Wall Street, the power of the drug companies, the power of the corporate media is so great that the only way we really transform America and do the things that the middle class and working class desperately need is through a political revolution when millions of people begin to come together and stand up and say: Our government is going to work for all of us, not just a handful of billionaires.
I got a great deal of admiration and affection for Senator Sanders, but I -- Bernie, I don't think the revolution's going to come.
And I don't think the Congress is going to pay for a lot of this stuff.
And if there would be a major difference between my administration and the Obama administration, it would be in the use of executive authority.
I came up as a committee counsel in the Congress, used to put dozens of bills through the House floor every year as a committee counsel on the Veterans Committee.
I have a very strong feeling about how our federal system works and how we need to lead and energize the congressional process instead of allowing these divisions to continue to paralyze what we're doing.
So I would lead -- working with both parties in the Congress and working through them in the traditional way that our Constitution sets (ph).
What I mean is that we need to have one of the larger voter turnouts in the world, not one of the lowest.
We need to raise public consciousness.
We need the American people to know what's going on in Washington in a way that today they do not know.
And when people come together in a way that does not exist now and are prepared to take on the big money interest, then we could bring the kind of change we need.
Anderson, I actually have talked about a revolution.
What we need is a green energy revolution.
We need to move America to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050 and create 5 million jobs along the way.
Well, thank you.
You know, it does take me a little longer.
That's all I can say.
Well, I can't think of anything more of an outsider than electing the first woman president, but I'm not just running because I would be the first woman president.
I'm running because I have a lifetime of experience in getting results and fighting for people, fighting for kids, for women, for families, fighting to even the odds.
And I know what it takes to get things done.
I know how to find common ground and I know how to stand my ground.
And I think we're going to need both of those in Washington to get anything that we're talking about up here accomplished.
So I'm very happy that I have both the commitment of a lifetime and the experience of a lifetime to bring together to offer the American people.
Well, actually, you know, we had this conversation.
And I will share with you that I've traveled all around the country, Anderson, and there's two phrases I keep hearing again and again and again.
And they're the phrases "new leadership" and "getting things done."
We cannot be this dissatisfied with our gridlocked national politics and an economy where 70 percent of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago, and think that a resort to old names is going to move us forward.
I respect what Secretary Clinton and her husband have done for our country.
But our country needs new leadership to move forward.
Well, I would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name.
I would ask them to listen to what I'm proposing, look at what I've accomplished in the Senate, as secretary of of state, and then draw your own conclusion.
I certainly am not campaigning to become president because my last name is Clinton.
I'm campaigning because I think I have the right combination of what the country needs, at this point, and I think I can take the fight to the Republicans, because we cannot afford a Republican to succeed Barack Obama as president of the United States.
I think -- I think that there is profound frustration all over this country with establishment politics.
I am the only candidate running for president who is not a billionaire, who has raised substantial sums of money, and I do not have a super PAC.
I am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires, and in fact, tonight, in terms of what a political revolution is about, there are 4,000 house parties -- 100,000 people in this country -- watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country.
Yeah.
Anna, I have put forward a plan -- and I'm the only candidate, I believe, in either party to do this -- to move America forward to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
We did not land a man on the moon with an all-of-the-above strategy.
It was an intentional engineering challenge, and we solved it as a nation.
And our nation must solve this one.
So I put forward the plan that would extend the investor tax credits for solar and for wind.
If you go across Iowa, you see that 30 percent of their energy now comes from wind.
We're here in Las Vegas, one of the most sustainable cities in America, doing important things in terms of green building, architecture and design.
We can get there as a nation, but it's going to require presidential leadership.
And as president, I intend to sign as my very first order in office the -- an order that moves us as a nation and dedicates our resources to solving this problem and moving us to a 100 percent clean electric grid by 2050.
We can do it.
Well, the -- the question really is how are we going to solve energy problems here and in the global environment if you really want to address climate change?
And when I was in the Senate, I was an all-of-the-above energy voter.
We introduced legislation to bring in alternate energy as well as nuclear power.
I'm a strong proponent of nuclear power.
It is safe, it is clean.
And really, we are not going to solve climate change simply with the laws here.
We've done a good job in this country since 1970.
If you look at China and India, they're the greatest polluters in the world.
Fifteen out of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in one of those two countries.
We need to solve this in a global way.
It's a global problem and I have been very strong on -- on doing that.
The -- the agreements -- the so-called agreements that we have had with China are illusory in terms of the immediate requirements of the -- of the Chinese government itself.
So let's solve this problem in an international way, and then we really will have a -- a way to address climate change.
Well, I will tell you this.
I believe -- and Pope Francis made this point.
This is a moral issue.
The scientists are telling us that we need to move extremely boldly.
I am proud that, along with Senator Barbara Boxer, a few years ago, we introduced the first piece of climate change legislation which called for a tax on carbon.
And let me also tell you that nothing is gonna happen unless we are prepared to deal with campaign finance reform, because the fossil fuel industry is funding the Republican Party, which denies the reality of climate change...
...and certainly is not prepared to go forward aggressively.
This is a moral issue.
We have got to be extremely aggressive in working with China, India, Russia.
The planet -- the future of the planet is at stake.
Well, that -- that's exactly what I've been doing.
When we met in Copenhagen in 2009 and, literally, President Obama and I were hunting for the Chinese, going throughout this huge convention center, because we knew we had to get them to agree to something.
Because there will be no effective efforts against climate change unless China and India join with the rest of the world.
They told us they'd left for the airport; we found out they were having a secret meeting.
We marched up, we broke in, we said, "We've been looking all over for you.
Let's sit down and talk about what we need to do."
And we did come up with the first international agreement that China has signed.
Thanks to President Obama's leadership, it's now gone much further.
And I do think that the bilateral agreement that President Obama made with the Chinese was significant.
Now, it needs to go further, and there will be an international meeting at the end of this year, and we must get verifiable commitments to fight climate change from every country gathered there.
Mm-hmm.
Well, I'm surprised she says that, because California has had a paid leave program for a number of years.
And it's...
Well, but all -- well, on a state level, a state as big as many countries in the world.
And it has not had the ill effects that the Republicans are always saying it will have.
And I think this is -- this is typical Republican scare tactics.
We can design a system and pay for it that does not put the burden on small businesses.
I remember as a young mother, you know, having a baby wake up who was sick and I'm supposed to be in court, because I was practicing law.
I know what it's like.
And I think we need to recognize the incredible challenges that so many parents face, particularly working moms.
I see my good friend, Senator Gillibrand, in the front row.
She's been a champion of this.
We need to get a consensus through this campaign, which is why I'm talking about it everywhere I go, and we need to join the rest of the advanced world in having it.
Well, look, you know, when people say that -- it's always the Republicans or their sympathizers who say, "You can't have paid leave, you can't provide health care."
They don't mind having big government to interfere with a woman's right to choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood.
They're fine with big government when it comes to that.
I'm sick of it.
You know, we can do these things.
We should not be paralyzed -- we should not be paralyzed by the Republicans and their constant refrain, "big government this, big government that," that except for what they want to impose on the American people.
I know we can afford it, because we're going to make the wealthy pay for it.
That is the way to get it done.
Yeah, Dana, here's the point: Every other major country on Earth, every one, including some small countries, say that when a mother has a baby, she should stay home with that baby.
We are the only major country.
That is an international embarrassment that we do not provide family -- paid family and medical leave.
Second of all, the secretary is right.
Republicans tell us we can't do anything except give tax breaks to billionaires and cut Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.
That's not what the American people want.
Anderson, in our state, we actually expanded family leave.
And I have to agree with Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders.
Look, the genius of our nation is that we find ways in every generation to include more of our people more fully in the economic life of our country, and we need to do that for our families, and especially so that women aren't penalized in having to drop out of the workforce.
My wife, Katie, is here with our four kids.
And, man, that was a juggle when we had little kids and -- and keeping jobs and moving forwards.
We would be a stronger nation economically if we had paid family leave.
I suspect I would vote yes.
...which has done an enormous amount of damage.
We need to rethink our criminal justice system, we we've got a lot of work to do in that area.
Juan Carlos?
No.
I think that we have the opportunity through the states that are pursuing recreational marijuana to find out a lot more than we know today.
I do support the use of medical marijuana, and I think even there we need to do a lot more research so that we know exactly how we're going to help people for whom medical marijuana provides relief.
So, I think we're just at the beginning, but I agree completely with the idea that we have got to stop imprisoning people who use marijuana.
Therefore, we need more states, cities, and the federal government to begin to address this so that we don't have this terrible result that Senator Sanders was talking about where we have a huge population in our prisons for nonviolent, low-level offenses that are primarily due to marijuana.
The Republican party, since I've been in the Senate, and since President Obama has been in office, has played a terrible, terrible role of being total obstructionists.
Every effort that he has made, that some of us have made, they have said no, no, no.
Now, in my view, the only way we can take on the right wing republicans who are, by the way, I hope will not continue to control the Senate and the House when one of us elected President...
...But the only way we can get things done is by having millions of people coming together.
If we want free tuition at public colleges and universities, millions of young people are going to have to demand it, and give the Republicans an offer they can't refuse.
If we want to raise the minimum wage to $15 bucks an hour, workers are going to have to come together and look the Republicans in the eye, and say, "We know what's going on.
You vote against us, you are out of your job."
I guess the coal lobby.
I've worked hard for climate change and I want to work with the coal lobby.
But in my time in the Senate, tried to bring them to the table so that we could address carbon dioxide.
I'm proud to be at odds with the coal lobby.
The National Rifle Association.
Well, in addition to the NRA, the health insurance companies, the drug companies, the Iranians.
Probably the Republicans.
(LAUGHTER)
As someone who has taken on probably every special interest that there is in Washington, I would lump Wall Street and the pharmaceutical industry at the top of my life of people who do not like me.
I'd have to say the enemy soldier that threw the grenade that wounded me, but he's not around right now to talk to.
Thank you, Anderson.
Thank you, CNN.
And thank you, Facebook, for sponsoring this debate.
America has many challenges confronting us -- ending the perpetual wars, addressing climate change, addressing income inequality, funding education, funding infrastructure, funding healthcare, helping black Americans, helping Native Americans.
We have many challenges.
Who is best able to confront these challenges?
I've served in government at many levels.
I know what it's like to solve problems at the local level because I did it as mayor.
I know how to get legislation passed through Congress because I did it as a senator.
I know how to turn around a state because I did as governor of Rhode Island.
But what I'm most proud of is that in 30 years of public service, I have had no scandals.
I have high ethical standards.
And what I'm most proud of is my judgment, particularly in the Iraq war vote.
There was a lot of pressure -- political pressure, public pressure.
But I did my homework and I did not believe that the evidence was there that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
And we live now with the consequences.
So that kind of judgment is what we want in a president going forward.
And I'm running for president to end the wars.
I want to be the peacemaker.
I am a proven peacemaker.
Please go to Chafee 2016 to learn more about me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a pleasure to be with you tonight.
You've heard a lot of promises up here; you've heard a lot of rhetoric.
They all seem to happen during campaigns, and then once the election's over, people start from scratch again and try to get things done.
One of the things I can promise you, if you look at my record, in and out of government, is that I've always been willing to take on a complicated, something unpopular issues, and work them through, the complex issues, and work them through in order to have the solution.
We did it with criminal justice reform.
We've had a lot of discussion here about criminal justice reform.
We did it in other ways.
We need a national political strategy for our economy, for our social policy, for social justice, and, by the way, for how you run and manage the most complex bureaucracy in the world, which is the federal government.
I know how to lead.
I did it in Vietnam, I did it in the Pentagon, I did it in the Senate, and if you will help me overcome this cavalcade of -- of financial irregularities and money that is poisoning our political process, I am ready to do that for you in the White House.
Anderson, thank you.
I am very, very grateful to have been able to be on this stage with this distinguished group of candidates tonight.
And what you heard tonight, Anderson, was a very, very -- and all of you watching at home -- was a very, very different debate than from the sort of debate you heard from the two presidential Republican debates.
On this stage -- on this stage, you didn't hear anyone denigrate women, you didn't hear anyone make racist comments about new American immigrants, you didn't hear anyone speak ill of another American because of their religious belief.
What you heard instead on this stage tonight was an honest search for the answers that will move our country forward, to move us to a 100 percent clean electric energy grid by 2050, to take the actions that we have always taken as Americans so that we can actually attack injustice in our country, employ more of our people, rebuild our cities and towns, educate our children at higher and better levels, and include more of our people in the economic, social, and political life of our country.
I truly believe that we are standing on the threshold of a new era of American progress.
Unless you've become discouraged about our gridlock in Congress, talk to our young people under 30, because you'll never find among them people that want to bash immigrants or people that want to deny rights to gay couples.
That tells me we are moving to a more connected, generous, and compassionate place, and we need to speak to the goodness within our country.
We should not be the only major country on Earth that does not guarantee health care to all of our people as a right of citizenship and we should not be the only major country that does not provide medical and -- and parental leave -- family and parental leave to all of our families.
Now, at the end of our day, here is the truth that very few candidates will say, is that nobody up here, certainly no Republican, can address the major crises facing our country unless millions of people begin to stand up to the billionaire class that has so much power over our economy and our political life.
Jim Webb is right: Money is pouring in to this campaign through super PACs.
We are doing it the old-fashioned way: 650,000 individual contributions.
And if people want to help us out, BernieSanders.com.
We are averaging $30 bucks apiece.
We would appreciate your help.
Thank you very much, Anderson.
And thanks to all the viewers who tuned in tonight.
I think what you did see is that, in this debate, we tried to deal with some of the very tough issues facing our country.
That's in stark contrast to the Republicans who are currently running for president.
What you have to ask yourself is: Who amongst us has the vision for actually making the changes that are going to improve the lives of the American people?
Who has the tenacity and the ability and the proven track record of getting that done?
Now, I revere my late mother, and she gave me a lot of good advice.
But one of the best pieces of advice she gave me was, you know, the issue is not whether or not you get knocked down.
It's whether you get back up.
America's been knocked down.
That Great Recession, 9 million people lost their jobs, 5 million lost their homes, $13 trillion in wealth disappeared.
And although we've made progress, we're standing but not running the way America needs to.
My mission as president will be to raise incomes for hard-working middle-class families and to make sure that we get back to the basic bargain I was raised with: If you work hard and you do your part, you should be able to get ahead and stay ahead.
Please join me in this campaign.
Please come and make it clear that America's best days are still ahead.
Thank you very much.
Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.
I've watched to see people say that we should dismantle Medicare and Medicaid and leave the senior citizens out -- out in the -- in the cold.
I've heard them talk about deporting 10 or 11 -- people here from this country out of this country, splitting families.
I've heard about tax schemes that don't add up, that put our kids in -- in a deeper hole than they are today.
We need somebody who can lead.
We need somebody who can balance budgets, cut taxes...
You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again.
Well, John, I don't really have any weaknesses that I can think of.
But my wife is down here in the front, and I'm sure, if you'd like to talk to her later, she can give you more than you'll ever be able to take care of.
If I have a weakness, it's that I try to live by the rules.
I try to live by the rules, no matter what they are, and I was brought up that way as a kid.
Play by the rules.
And I'll tell you what a weakness is of this country: there are a lot of people who are sick and tired because Washington does not play by the same rules that the American people have to play by.
You know, I am by my nature impatient.
And this is not an endeavor that rewards that.
You gotta be patient.
You gotta be -- stick with it, and all that.
But also, I can't fake anger.
I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country.
It's never been that way in American politics before.
I can't do it.
I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply -- you know, going down.
I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.
Thank you for that question.
I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.
I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us.
And that doesn't have to be true.
Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now.
If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation.
I think maybe my greatest weakness is that I trust people too much.
I'm too trusting.
And when they let me down, if they let me down, I never forgive.
I find it very, very hard to forgive people that deceived me.
So I don't know if you would call that a weakness, but my wife said "let up."
Probably in terms of the applying for the job of president, a weakness would be not really seeing myself in that position until hundreds of thousands of people began to tell me that I needed to do it.
I do, however, believe in Reagan's 11th commandment, and will not be engaging in awful things about my compatriots here.
And recognizing that it's so important, this election, because we're talking about America for the people versus America for the government.
Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn't smile enough.
(LAUGHTER)
But I also think that these are very serious times; 75 percent of the American people think the federal government is corrupt.
I agree with them.
And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected.
Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years.
We have more Americans out of work or just Americans who quit looking for work for 40 years.
Ours was intended to be a citizen government.
This is about more than replacing a D with an R. We need a leader who will help us take our government back.
I'm too agreeable, easy going.
You know, I think my biggest weakness is exactly the opposite.
I'm a fighter.
I am passionate about what I believe.
I've been passionate my whole life about the Constitution.
And, you know, for six-and-a-half years, we've had a gigantic party.
If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy.
But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.
I don't see a lot of weakness on this stage, quite frankly.
Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage.
You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist.
And for the sake of me, I can't figure out which one is which.
But I know who the pessimist is.
It's Hillary Clinton.
And you put me on that stage against her next September, she won't get within 10 miles of the White House.
Take it to the bank.
I will stand firm.
I will spend every ounce of energy to stop it.
I will begin tomorrow to filibuster it.
And I ask everyone in America to call Congress tomorrow and say enough is enough; no more debt.
Right.
Right.
That's right.
No, not a comic book, and it's not a very nicely asked question the way you say that.
Larry Kudlow is an example, who I have a lot of respect for, who loves my tax plan.
We're reducing taxes to 15 percent.
We're bringing corporate taxes down, bringing money back in, corporate inversions.
We have $2.5 trillion outside of the United States which we want to bring back in.
As far as the wall is concerned, we're going to build a wall.
We're going to create a border.
We're going to let people in, but they're going to come in legally.
They're going to come in legally.
And it's something that can be done, and I get questioned about that.
They built the great wall of China.
That's 13,000 miles.
Here, we actually need 1,000 because we have natural barriers.
So we need 1,000.
We can do a wall.
We're going to have a big, fat beautiful door right in the middle of the wall.
We're going to have people come in, but they're coming in legally.
And Mexico's going to pay for the wall because Mexico -- I love the Mexican people; I respect the Mexican leaders -- but the leaders are much sharper, smarter and more cunning than our leaders.
And just to finish, people say, how will you get Mexico to pay?
A politician other than the people in the states -- I don't want to -- a politician cannot get them to pay.
I can.
We lose, we have a trade imbalance...
Excuse me, John.
... of $50 billion...
... believe me the world is peanuts by comparison.
Right.
Dynamically.
Then you have to get rid of Larry Kudlow, who sits on your panel, who's a great guy, who came out the other day and said, I love Trump's tax plan.
Well, first of all, I didn't say that the rate would be 10 percent.
I used the tithing analogy.
The rate -- the rate -- the rate is gonna be much closer to 15 percent.
You also have to get rid of all the deductions and all the loopholes.
You also have to some strategically cutting in several places.
Remember, we have 645 federal agencies and sub-agencies.
Anybody who tells me that we need every penny and every one of those is in a fantasy world.
So, also, we can stimulate the economy.
That's gonna be the real growth engine.
Stimulating the economy -- because it's tethered down right now with so many regulations...
That's not true.
When -- when we put all the facts down, you'll be able to see that it's not true, it works out very well.
Listen, I want to just comment.
Well I want to comment on this.
This is the fantasy...
This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.
You can't do it with empty promised.
You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.
I actually have a plan.
I'm the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I'm realistic.
You just don't make promises like this.
Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up -- coming up with these fantasy tax schemes.
We'll just clean it up.
Where are you gonna clean it up?
You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending.
You gotta be creative and imaginative.
Now, let me just be clear, John.
I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus.
We're up 347,000 jobs.
When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced.
I was the architect.
It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon.
We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.
That's was hard work.
Fiscal discipline, know what you're doing.
Creativity.
This stuff is fantasy.
Just like getting rid of Medicare and Medicaid.
Come on, that's just not -- you scare senior citizens with that.
It's not responsible.
Well, I mean right here.
To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government?
And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse?
Or that we're just going to be great?
Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans -- or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?
Folks, we've got to wake up.
We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job.
You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.
And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio.
And I will go back to Washington with my plan.
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass.
And we will be strong again.
Thank you.
Number two, this was the man that was a managing general partner at Lehman Brothers when it went down the tubes and almost took every one of us with it, including Ben and myself, because I was there and I watched what happened.
And Lehman Brothers started it all.
He was on the board.
And he was a managing general partner.
And just thirdly, he was so nice.
He was such a nice guy.
And he said, oh, I'm never going to attack.
But then his poll numbers tanked.
He has got -- that is why he is on the end.
(LAUGHTER) And he got nasty.
And he got nasty.
So you know what?
You can have him.
Let me just -- let me respond.
First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we're diversified.
We're one of the fastest growing states in the country.
We came back from the dead.
And you know what?
It works very, very well.
And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers.
I was a banker and I was proud of it.
And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.
We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work.
My state is doing great across the board.
And guess what, in 2011, I got a deal...
... an agreement with the...
... that he tried to take credit for four years later.
It's a joke.
Since I was attacked too.
Let me just say, if you're talking about an $18 trillion economy, you're talking about a 15 percent tax on your gross domestic product.
You're talking about $2.7 trillion.
We have a budget closer to $3.5 trillion.
But if you also apply that same 15 percent to several other things, including corporate taxes, and including the capital gains taxes, you make that amount up pretty quickly.
So that is not by any stretch a pie in the sky.
After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up.
The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary.
On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent.
Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business.
And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars.
Those are the hard numbers.
And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.
Growth is the answer.
And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.
Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.?
We have been talking about it for decades.
We now have a 73,000-page tax code.
There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone.
There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think tanks about how to reform the tax code.
The problem is we never get it done.
We have talked about tax reform in every single election for decades.
It never happens.
And the politicians always say it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.
The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose it, to get it done.
That's right, three pages.
You know why three?
No.
You know why three?
Because only if it's about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.
Three pages is about the maximum that a single business owner or a farmer or just a couple can understand without hiring somebody.
Almost 60 percent of American people now need to hire an expert to understand their taxes.
So yes, you're going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform --
-- the issue is who is going to get it done.
Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck.
They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.
You have small businesses in America that are struggling.
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting.
We have a world that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies.
And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.
We have a -- they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington?
We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.
The time to act is now.
The time to turn the page is now.
If we -- if we don't act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves.
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement.
It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.
Let me -- let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today.
Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes.
I don't recall them calling for his resignation --
Could I -- could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work.
He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field.
He's a gifted politician.
But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work.
I mean, literally, the Senate -- what is it, like a French work week?
You get, like, three days where you have to show up?
You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job.
There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.
I get to respond, right?
Well, it's interesting.
Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport.
You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?
He wasn't my senator.
No Jeb, I don't remember -- well, let me tell you.
I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record.
The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.
Well, I've been --
Here's the bottom line.
I'm not -- my campaign is going to be about the future of America, it's not going to be about attacking anyone else on this stage.
I will continue to have tremendous admiration and respect for Governor Bush.
I'm not running against Governor Bush, I'm not running against anyone on this stage.
I'm running for president because there is no way we can elect Hillary Clinton to continue the policies of Barack Obama.
I think you're --
John Harwood, there's a bigger issue here.
No, no.
What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C.
But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C.
(inaudible), the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future.
They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.
And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.
You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent -- 80 percent -- and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover.
I was recruited to H.P.
to save a company.
It was a company that had grown into a bloated, inept bureaucracy that cost too much and delivered too little to customers and shareholders.
It had missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.
As an outsider, I tackled H.P.
s entrenched problems head-on.
I cut the bureaucracy down to size, re-introduced accountability, focused on service, on innovation, on leading in every market, in every product segment.
And yes, it was a very difficult time.
However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally went out of business -- like Gateway -- taking all their jobs with them.
The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times.
I think, actually, people are looking for that in Washington now.
And yes, I was fired over a disagreement in the boardroom.
There are politics in the boardroom as well.
And yet the man who led my firing, Tom Perkins, an icon of Silicon Valley, has come out publicly and said, "you know what?
We were wrong.
She was right.
She was a great CEO.
She'd be a great president of the United States because the leadership she brought to H.P.
is exactly the leadership we need in Washington, D.C.
Well, this is one of the reasons why Tom Perkins and I had disagreements in the boardroom, Becky.
Nevertheless, one of the things that I think people don't always understand is how accountable a CEO actually is.
So you know, I had to report results every 90 days in excruciating detail.
I had to answer every single question about every single result and every single projection in public until there were no more questions.
And if I misrepresented those results or those projections in any way, I was held criminally liable.
Imagine -- imagine -- if a politician were held to that standard of account.
I will run on my record all day long.
And I believe people need a leader who is prepared to make tough calls in tough times and stand up...
...and be held accountable.
You know, let me say something at the outset.
The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don't trust the media.
(APPLAUSE) This is not a cage match.
And, you look at the questions -- "Donald Trump, are you a comic-book villain?"
Ben Carson, can you do math?
John Kasich, will you insult two people over here?
Marco Rubio, why don't you resign?
Jeb Bush, why have your numbers fallen?
How about talking about the substantive issues the people care about?
And Carl -- Carl, I'm not finished yet.
The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?"
And let me be clear.
Let me be clear.
The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate.
That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.
And nobody watching at home believed that any of the moderators had any intention of voting in a Republican primary.
The questions that are being asked shouldn't be trying to get people to tear into each other.
It should be what are your substantive positions...
You want me to answer that question?
I'm happy to answer the question...
Let me tell you how that question...
Let me tell you how that question...
... so you don't actually want to hear the answer, John?
You don't want to hear the answer.
You just want to...
You're not interested in an answer.
No, I oppose it because you're taking money from the entitlement and then spending it immediately on other items.
That's what they're doing.
They're taking money from Social Security and they're going to spend it on the military and they're going to spend it on domestic spending.
Here's the thing.
When you look at raising the debt limit, it should be leverage to try to reform government.
In 2011, the sequester was passed as a reform to slow down the rate of government.
Instead, the Washington establishment raised both.
We raised the military spending, took from entitlements, and raised domestic spending and the deficit will explode under this.
This is the unholy alliance that people need to know about between right and left.
Right and left are spending us into oblivion.
We should use the debt ceiling, as precisely to Don, to force upon them budgetary reforms.
Well, that's a real question.
Is there going to be any change in the House with new leadership?
I frankly don't think there will be much change because I think what's going to happen is you're going to get more of the same.
People in Washington think they were sent there to be adults and govern and do all this.
Well, you know what I'm worried about?
Not keeping the government open.
I'm worried about bankrupting the American people.
We're borrowing a million dollars a minute.
That is important.
And that's what we have to contrast.
Keeping the government open and continuing to borrow a million dollars a minute.
Now, let me ask you a question everybody, and, this is for the guy, you know, who owns a landscaping business out there.
If somebody's already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more?
Or, are you going to deal with the problem by saying, I'm going to give people who've done well in this country less benefit on the backend.
We need to get realistic about this.
We're not -- the American people -- forget about anything else, they've already been lied to and stolen from.
And...
...I'm going to go to Washington to stop it...
Well, I would really appreciate that.
First of all, yes, we've stolen.
Yes, we've lied to the American people about Social Security, and Medicare.
But, you know what we're not telling them?
It's their money.
This isn't the governments money.
This is not entitlement, it's not welfare.
This is money that people have confiscated out of their paychecks.
Everytime they got a paycheck, the government reached in and took something out of it before they ever saw it.
Now, we're going to blame the people.
Today congress decided to take another $150 billion dollars away from Social Security so they can borrow more money.
That makes no sense to everybody.
And, they're always going to say, "Well, we're going to fix this one day."
No their not.
It's like a 400 pound man saying, "I'm going to go on a diet, but I'm eating a sack of Krispy Kremes before I do."
And, people are sick of believing that the government is never going to really address this.
But, let me tell you who not to blame.
Let's quit blaming the people on Social Security.
Let's quit making it a problem for them.
It's like them getting mugged, and then us saying, well, we're going to mug you some more.
You ought to just be able to get over it, get used to it...
...No, sir...
...we need to honor our promises...
...before I go.
This is the only time I've had a chance, let me finish.
...This is a matter not of math, this is a matter of morality.
If this country that does not keep its promise to seniors then what promise can this country hope to be trusted to keep?
And, the fact is, none of them.
And, the only way -- no...
...The only way we're going to be morale, the only way we're going to keep our promise to seniors is start by following the first rule we should all follow, which is to look at them, treat them like adults, and tell them the truth.
...Chris...
So, let's stop fooling around about this, let's tell people the truth.
For once, let's do that, and stop trying to give them some kind of fantasy that's never going to come true.
...Chris...
...Then I'll buy you a tequila...
...Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.
Since he brought me up, do I not get to respond?
Well, sure.
This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken.
Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.
And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right.
Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers -- look.
I'm 44 years old.
It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us.
We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids.
John, listen, let's keep in mind that for one-third of the 60 million Americans on Social Security it represents 90 percent of their income.
And, when I hear people talking about means testing, let's just remember what that means.
If we means test Social Security, it means that the government decides whether or not I deserve it.
If a person lives in a seven room house, does the government get to say you don't need seven rooms, we're going to take two of them away?
Folks, the government has no business stealing even more from the people who have paid this in.
I just want to remind you, people paid their money.
They expect to have it.
And, if this government doesn't pay it, than tell me what's different between the government and Bernie Madolf, who sits in prison today for doing less than what the government has done to the people on social security and Medicare in this country.
Well, first of all, like many other very big businessmen, I could name them here, but I'm not going to do that for a lot of obvious reasons, but the biggest, and almost all of them, they've all used the chapter laws, the bankruptcy laws to their own benefit.
Before this, I was a very successful person as a developer and as a businessman.
Atlantic City has gone bad.
I mean, Chris will know about that.
I'm not blaming Chris, by the way, but he will know about that.
Caesar's -- excuse me -- Caesar's, the Rolls-Royce, as you know, is in bankruptcy.
Almost every hotel in Atlantic City has either been in bankruptcy or will be in bankruptcy -- the biggest.
But I will tell you this, Atlantic City, you're using that, hundreds of companies that I have opened have thrived.
I built a net worth of way over $10 billion, and I have done it four times out of hundreds.
And I'm glad I did it.
I used the laws of the country to my benefit, I'm sorry.
Thank you.
Well, there is no question that some people go overboard when it comes to trying to make profits, and they don't take into consideration the American people.
What we have to start thinking about, as leaders, particularly in government, is what can we do for the average American?
And you think about the reasons that we're having such difficulty right now with our job market.
So what we're going to have to start doing instead of, you know, picking on this group or this group, is we're going to have to have a major reduction in the regulatory influence that is going on.
The government is not supposed to be in every part of our lives, and that is what is causing the problem.
You bet they do.
And if I were the prosecutor, that is exactly where they would be.
The fact is that this Justice Department under this president has been a political Justice Department.
It has been a Justice Department that decided that they want to pick who the winners and losers are.
They like General Motors, so they give them a pass.
They don't like somebody else like David Petraeus, they prosecute them and send a decorated general on to disgrace.
It's a political Justice Department.
And, Jim, you know full well that in the seven years I was U.S. attorney we went after pharmaceutical companies.
We went after companies that were ripping off shareholders.
We went after companies that were doing things that were against the law.
And to expand on Mr. Carson's -- or Dr. Carson's question, let's face it, we have laws already.
We don't need newer (ph) laws.
We don't need Hillary Clinton's price controls for -- again, does anybody out there think that giving Washington, D.C., the opportunity to run the pharmaceutical industry is a good idea, given how well they have done running the government?
So what we do, though, is, if there is somebody who is price- gouging, we have laws for prosecutors to take that on.
Let's let a Justice Department -- and I will make an attorney general who will enforce the law and make justice more than just a word.
It will be a way of life.
Well, the deal was done.
Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts.
You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation.
And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.
And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.
We need to reverse that.
And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year.
You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record.
$19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income.
You find me...
You find me a Democrat -- you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars?
Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars.
I'll talk to them.
Look, the -- the deal is already done.
The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up.
You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes -- cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss.
You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about.
Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C. for decades.
What's crony capitalism?
Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.
So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating?
Why are there five even bigger Wall Street banks now, instead of the ten we used to have on Wall Street?
Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small and the powerless -- in this case, 1,590 community banks -- go out of business.
You see, folks, this is how socialism starts.
Government causes a problem, and then government steps in to solve the problem.
This is why, fundamentally, we have to take our government back.
The student loan problem has been created by government.
Government trying to level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a problem.
The FCC jumping in now and saying, "we're going to put 400 pages of regulation over the Internet," is going to create massive problems.
But guess who pushed for that regulation?
The big Internet companies.
This is what's going on.
Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their advantage.
It's why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid.
It's why you see the pharmaceuticals getting together.
It's you see the health insurance companies getting together.
It's why you see the banks consolidating.
And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed.
Community- based businesses and farms are getting crushed.
Community banks are going out of business.
Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.
It is why we have to simplify.
It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.
It's the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.
Well, you just -- you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all.
But I'm going to tell you the truth.
Here's the truth.
I didn't inherit any money.
My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid.
They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.
They didn't save enough money for us to go to school.
I had to work my way through school.
I had to borrow money to go to school.
I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.
I know what it's like to owe that money, and we've worked hard.
We've worked hard our whole life to provide a better family -- a better life for our family.
We own a home four blocks away from the place that I grew up in.
My four children have been able to receive a good Christian education, and I've been able to save for them to go to college so they never have to have the loans that I did.
But I'm not worried about my finances, I'm worried about the finances of everyday Americans who today are struggling in an economy that is not producing good paying jobs while everything else costs more.
And that's what this economy needs to -- that's what this debate needs to be about.
This debate needs to be about the men and women across this country that are struggling on a daily basis to provide for their families the better future that we've always said this country is all about.
And I used it to pay off my loans.
And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book.
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.
It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a book.
I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families.
And I make a lot more than the average American.
Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.
We can't afford another four years of that.
Which is what we're gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.
Thank you, senator.
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare.
If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well.
Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive.
Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state -- $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.
I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.
This is the same old stuff since I left.
You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow.
I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget.
We actually did it.
And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.
Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes.
You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy.
So what I will tell you about our incentives -- our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.
And you know what?
Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country -- I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals...
...
If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.
The Democrats' answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits.
You know, you look at women working.
I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family.
My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms.
My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.
Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together.
But I -- the struggle of single moms is extraordinary.
And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.
92 percent -- 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama's first term belonged to women.
Senator Cruz is precisely right.
Three million women have fallen into poverty under this administration.
The number of women --
-- living in extreme poverty is the highest level on record.
I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies --
-- work better to lift everyone up, men and women.
Well, obviously, you don't understand my views on homosexuality.
I believe that our Constitution protects everybody, regardless of their sexual orientation or any other aspect.
I also believe that marriage is between one man and one woman.
And there is no reason that you can't be perfectly fair to the gay community.
They shouldn't automatically assume that because you believe that marriage is between one man and one woman that you are a homophobe.
And this is one of the myths that the left perpetrates on our society, and this is how they frighten people and get people to shut up.
You know, that's what the PC culture is all about, and it's destroying this nation.
The fact of the matter is we the American people are not each other's enemies, it's those people who are trying to divide us who are the enemies.
And we need to make that very clear to everybody.
I did a couple of speeches for them, I do speeches for other people.
They were paid speeches.
It is absolutely absurd to say that I had any kind of a relationship with them.
Do I take the product?
Yes.
I think it's a good product.
If somebody put me on their homepage, they did it without my permission.
No, it speaks to the fact that I don't know those --
See?
They know.
Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again.
If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.
The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms.
For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days.
You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.
But here's the best solution of all.
We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century.
Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work.
But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs.
But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those -- those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.
But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad.
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.
I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley.
So I have nothing at all critical of him.
And if I could say just one thing.
I am the only person in either campaign that's self-funding.
I'm putting up 100 percent of my own money.
And right now, I will be putting up a tremendous -- so far, I've put up less than anybody and I have the best results.
Wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?
But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money.
SuperPacs are a disaster.
They're a scam.
They cause dishonesty.
And you better get rid of them because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- well, I guess I could.
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you better get rid of the SuperPacs because they causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that have been made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
I never said that.
I never said that.
You've got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...
... he's really doing some bad...
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK.
I know the Democrats have the ultimate SuperPac.
It's called the mainstream media who every single day...
... and I'll tell you why.
Last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee.
She admitted she had sent e-mails to her family saying, "Hey, this attack at Benghazi was caused by Al Qaida-like elements."
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video.
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...
But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Well, thank you very much.
I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed.
And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.
I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill.
I would prevent them lobbying Congress.
I don't think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.
I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem.
You want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.
Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.
What you need to do is free up interest rates.
Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn't have price controls on the price of money.
Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy.
I have...
... the best results, wouldn't that be nice if the country could do that?
But I will be putting -- I will be putting up, you know, tremendous amounts of money.
Super PACs are a disaster.
They're a scam.
They cause dishonesty.
And you had better get rid of them, because they are causing a lot of bad decisions to be made by some very good people.
And I'm not blaming these folks -- but I guess I could.
Very good people are making very bad decisions right now.
And if anything comes out of this whole thing with some of these nasty and ridiculous questions, I will tell you, you had better get rid of the super PACs, because they're causing a big problem with this country, not only in dishonesty and what's going on, but also in a lot of bad decisions that are being made for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
I never said that.
I never said that.
He has got another gentleman in Florida, who happens to be a very nice guy, but not...
Everybody is really doing some bad fact...
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK. You know, the Democrats who have the ultimate super PAC, it's called the mainstream media.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
And I'll tell you why, last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee, she admitted she had sent emails to her family saying, hey, this attack in Benghazi was caused by al Qaeda-like elements.
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video.
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar...
But she has her super PAC helping her out, the American mainstream media.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
But if you look at working men and women.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Well, thank you very much.
I would like to thank Ted for co-sponsoring my bill, audit the Fed.
And I think it's precisely because of the arrogance of someone like Ben Bernanke, who now calls us all know-nothings, that is precisely why we need audit the Fed.
I think it is really very much a huge problem that an organization as powerful as the Fed comes in, lobbies against them being audited on the Hill.
I would prevent them lobbying Congress.
I don't think the Fed should be involved with lobbying us.
I think we should examine how the Fed has really been part of the problem.
You want to study income inequality, let's bring the Fed forward and talk about Fed policy and how it causes income inequality.
Let's also bring the Fed forward and have them explain how they caused the housing boom and the crisis, and what they've done to make us better or worse.
I think the Fed has been a great problem in our society.
What you need to do is free up interest rates.
Interest rates are the price of money, and we shouldn't have price controls on the price of money.
Well, first of all, I was wrong about taking the oil subsidy.
I have studied that issue in great detail.
And what I have concluded is that the best policy is to get rid of all government subsidies, and get the government out of our lives, and let people rise and fall based on how good they are.
And -- you know, all of this too big to fail stuff and picking and choosing winners and losers -- this is a bunch of crap, and it is really causing a great deal of -- great deal of problems for our society right now.
And -- and -- you know, it goes back to the whole concept of regulations, which are in everything.
The reason that I -- I hate them so much is because every single regulation costs in terms of goods and services.
That cost gets passed on to the people.
Now, who are the people who are hurt by that?
It's poor people and middle class.
Doesn't hurt rich people if their bar of soap goes up ten cents, but it hurts the poor and the middle class.
And Bernie Sanders will tell them that it's because of the rich.
Well, I'll tell you something: you can take everything from the top 1 percent, and you apply it to our fiscal gap, and you won't even make a dent in it.
I don't think it's so much about when the government orders a corporation to do something.
In fact, that's part of the problem.
If you saw that blimp that got cut loose from Maryland today, it's a perfect example of government.
I mean, what we had was something the government made -- basically a bag of gas -- that cut loose, destroyed everything in its path, left thousands of people powerless, but they couldn't get rid of it because we had too much money invested in it, so we had to keep it.
That is our government today.
We saw it in the blimp.
That's exactly what we saw.
So look, corporations ought to exercise some responsibility.
When CEO income has risen 90 percent above the average worker, when the bottom 90 percent of this country's economy has had stagnant wages for the past 40 years, somebody is taking it in the teeth.
And it's not the folks on Wall Street.
I'm not anti-Wall Street, but I don't believe the government ought to wear a team jersey, pick winners and losers.
The government ought to wear a striped shirt and just make sure the game...
...is paid -- played fairly.
Let me just close it out this way.
We need to be focusing on what fixes this country.
And I'll tell you one thing that we never talk about -- we haven't talked about it tonight.
Why aren't we talking about -- instead of cutting benefits for old people, cutting benefits for sick people -- why don't we say, "let's cure the four big cost-driving diseases...
..."diabetes, heart disease, cancer and Alzheimer's?"
If you do that, you don't just change the economy, you transform the lives of millions of hurting Americans.
Gosh, I'd love for us to talk about something like that.
Thank you.
QUICK: Governor, thank you.
Appreciate it.
John?
Look, the -- the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family.
And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.
Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and -- and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do.
You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost -- that's why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now.
The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this.
And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.
The government has tried it their way.
Under -- under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it their way, and it has failed miserably.
We need to take a new approach of taxing -- reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our -- in our country before it's too late.
Number one, you have people in this country that...
...you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.
You did.
No, you did.
Well, you're talking about -- yeah.
...numerically, it's gonna be higher.
But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here's why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families.
We are lowering taxes on small business.
You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning.
He's an S corporation.
He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate.
Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income.
That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses.
...The other thing I'd like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn't tax investments at all.
You know why?
Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.
I want to be in -- I want America to be the best...
...John...
...in the world for people...
John, I'd like to address this?
John, could I follow up on this?
What are the rules on who gets to follow up.
How do we decide on who gets to follow up?
I've seen plenty of other people follow up?
I'd like to just mention something about my tax plan, and how it relates to the discussion...
Alright.
Much of the discussion is centered over whether or not the different tax plans help, or affect the middle class.
In fact, it's the chief argument by democrats against many of the different flat tax proposals.
Mine is unique in the sense that my tax plan actually gets rid of the payroll tax as well.
It shifts it to the business, and it would allow middle class people to get a tax cut.
If you just cut their income tax, there isn't much income tax to cut.
Mine actually cuts the payroll tax, and I think it would spread the tax cut across all socioeconomic levels, and would allow then it to be something that would be broadly supported by the public in an election.
Let me say on that...
...Rand is exactly right.
His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax,
...eliminates the business...
...income tax...
...10% flat rate...
...is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS.
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now.
And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster.
Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on.
We could do a whole show on that.
I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality.
My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.
The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety.
I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.
And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise.
Again...
...One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average.
We've cut taxes, balanced budgets, changed the regulatory environment.
Folks, you want to --
-- fix America, this is the formula.
It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio.
Thank you.
I'm in favor of people coming into this country legally.
And you know what?
They can have it anyway you want.
You can call it visas, you can call it work permits, you can call it anything you want.
I've created tens of thousands of jobs, and in all due respect -- and actually some of these folks I really like a lot -- but I'm the only one that can say that.
I have created tens of thousands of jobs, and I'll be creating many millions of jobs if I'm given -- if I'm given the opportunity to be president.
As far as Mark is concerned, as far as the visas are concerned, if we need people, they have -- it's fine.
They have to come into this country legally.
We have a country of borders.
We have a country of laws.
We have to obey the laws.
It's fine if they come in, but they have to come in legally.
I was mentioned in the question.
Thank you.
Well, I've learned the rules on this.
Look, in addition to what Donald was saying is we also need to talk about the legal immigration system for permanent residents.
Today, we have a legal immigration system for permanent residency that is largely based on whether or not you have a relative living here.
And that's the way my parents came legally in 1956.
But in 2015, we have a very different economy.
Our legal immigration system from now on has to be merit-based.
It has to be based on what skills you have, what you can contribute economically, and most important of all, on whether or not you're coming here to become an American, not just live in America, but be an American.
Yes.
Or somebody else.
Right.
Yes, I might feel more comfortable.
I would say that I would and I have a permit, which is very unusual in New York -- a permit to carry.
And I do carry on occasion, sometimes a lot.
But I like to be unpredictable so that people don't know exactly... (LAUGHTER)
By the way, unlike our country where we're totally predictable and the enemy, whether it's ISIS or anybody else, they know exactly what we're doing because we have the wrong leadership.
But I feel that the gun-free zones and, you know, when you say that, that's target practice for the sickos and for the mentally ill. That's target.
They look around for gun-free zones.
You know, we could give you another example -- the Marines, the Army, these wonderful six soldiers that were killed.
Two of them were among the most highly decorated -- they weren't allowed on a military base to have guns.
And somebody walked in and shot them, killed them.
If they had guns, he wouldn't be around very long.
I can tell you, there wouldn't have been much damage.
So, I think gun-free zones are a catastrophe.
They're a feeding frenzy for sick people.
I would change them.
I would change them.
You know, of the few questions I've got, the last one I need is to give him some more time.
I love Donald Trump.
He is a good man.
I'm wearing a Trump tie tonight.
Get over that one, OK?
I have no idea.
Such a nasty -- such a nasty question, but thank you, Governor.
You're welcome.
Let me tell you, Donald Trump would be a president every day of the week and twice on Sunday, rather than Hillary.
I've spent a lifetime in politics fighting the Clinton machine.
You want to talk about what we're going to be up against next year?
I'm the only guy on this stage -- you know, everybody has an "only guy" -- "I'm the only guy this; I'm the only guy that."
Well, let me tell you one thing that I am the only guy: The only guy that has consistently fought the Clinton machine every election I was ever in over the past 26 years.
And not only did I fight them, but I beat them.
Somebody says "I'm a fighter."
Well, I want to know, did you win?
Well, I did.
And not only did I fight them and win, I lived to tell about it and I'm standing on this stage tonight as evidence of that.
And I think that ought to be worth something.
And when the president of the United States gets out to speak about it, does he support police officers?
Does he stand up for law enforcement?
No, he doesn't.
I'll tell you this, the number one job of the president of the United States is to protect the safety and security of the American people.
This president has failed, and when I'm in the Oval Office, police officers will know that they will have the support of the president of the Untied States.
That's real moral authority that we need in the Oval Office.
No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.
Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets worse.
And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is talking about.
They are refusing to...
I think it's a wonderful that that businesses start a 401(k).
The point I'm making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up -- retirement plans.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government to be setting minimum wages...
...
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes.
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true...
...
The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.
We don't need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt.
It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government.
It is broke, it is not working.
Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.
Gronkowski is still going strong.
I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week.
So I'm doing great.
But we're not gambling.
And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation.
Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all.
And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.
If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit.
And there should be some regulation.
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.
Carl, are we really talking about getting government involved in fantasy football?
We have -- wait a second, we have $19 trillion in debt.
We have people out of work.
We have ISIS and al Qaeda attacking us.
And we're talking about fantasy football?
Can we stop?
How about this?
How about we get the government to do what they're supposed to be doing, secure our borders, protect our people, and support American values and American families.
Enough on fantasy football.
Let people play, who cares?
Well, first off, what we don't do is do what Hillary Clinton and John Kerry and Barack Obama want us to do, which is their solution for everything, put more taxes on it, give more money to Washington, D.C., and then they will fix it.
Well, there is no evidence that they can fix anything in Washington, D.C.
What we should do is to be investing in all types of energy, John, all types of energy.
I've laid out...
No, John.
John, do you want me to answer or do you want to answer?
How are we going to do this?
Because, I've got to tell you the truth, even in New Jersey what you're doing is called rude.
So...
We've laid out a national energy plan that says that we should invest in all types of energy.
I will tell you, you could win a bet at a bar tonight, since we're talking about fantasy football, if you ask who the top three states in America are that produce solar energy: California and Arizona are easy, but number three is New Jersey.
Why?
Because we work with the private sector to make solar energy affordable and available to businesses and individuals in our state.
We need to make sure that we do everything across all kinds of energy: natural gas, oil, absolutely.
But also where it's affordable, solar, wind in Iowa has become very affordable and it makes sense.
That is the way we deal with global warming, climate change, or any of those problems, not through government intervention, not through government taxes, and for God's sake, don't send Washington another dime until they stop wasting the money they're already sending there.
The question always is, what works better, the private marketplace or government?
And what distributes goods better?
It always seems to be the private marketplace does a better job.
Is there an area for a safety net?
Can you have Medicare or Social Security?
Yes.
But you ought to acknowledge the government doesn't do a very good job at it.
The main problem with Medicare right now is that the average person pays in taxes over their whole lifetime about $100,000.
But the average person takes out about $350,000.
We have this enormous mismatch because we have smaller and smaller families.
When people ask me, whose fault is it?
Whose fault is it that Medicare is broken, out of money, that Social Security is broken, out of money?
And I say, look, it's not Republicans' fault, it's not Democrats' fault, it's your grandparents' fault for having too many damn kids.
After the war we had all of these kids, Baby Boomers.
Now we're having smaller families.
We used to have 16 workers for one retiree, now you have three workers for one retiree.
It's not working.
I have a bill to fix Medicare.
I've a bill to fix Social Security.
For both of them you have to gradually raise the age.
If you're not willing to do that, nobody wants to do it, but if you're not willing to gradually raise the age, you're not serious about fixing either one of them.
Well, and specifically to Medicare, Becky, because 85 percent of the cost of Medicare is chronic disease.
The fact is if we don't address what's costing so much, we can't throw enough money at this.
And it's why I've continued to focus on the fact that we need to declare war on the four big cost drivers because 80 percent of all medical costs in this country are chronic disease.
We don't have a health care crisis in America, we have a health crisis.
And until we deal with the health of Americans and do what we did with polio -- when I was a little kid, we eradicated it.
You know how much money we spent on polio last year in America?
We didn't spend any.
We've saved billions of dollars.
You want to fix Medicare?
Focus on the diseases that are costing us the trillions of dollars.
Alzheimers, diabetes, heart disease and cancer.
Eradicate those and you fix Medicare and you've fixed America, its economy and you've made people's lives a heck of a lot better.
Becky --
-- the governor's absolutely right.
But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security.
We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.
I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.
Yes, it's very simple.
We're going to make a really dynamic economy from what we have right now, which is not at all dynamic.
We're going to bring jobs back from Japan, we're going to bring jobs back from China, we're going to bring, frankly, jobs back from Mexico where, as you probably saw, Nabisco is leaving Chicago with one of their biggest plants, and they're moving it to Mexico.
We're going to bring jobs and manufacturing back.
We're going to cut costs.
We're going to save Social Security, and we're going to save Medicare.
You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market.
The idea of 401(k)s. I have a small business that I set up.
It took -- it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k).
Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive.
We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.
John.
But the idea that you can't -- that you're just gonna grow your way out of this -- I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.
And so much of what we did -- to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups -- can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?
We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare.
We can make a stronger program.
But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy.
You can't grow your way out of demographics.
But we can give people better health care.
And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating -- keep giving...
...incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick?
Say again?
You can't do nothing.
And that's what I hear from some people, "we'll do nothing and it will just be fixed."
That's absurd, and I think people who don't want to fix it, really, or unwilling to take the chance to say, "something has to change," are missing the boat here.
The age will have to gradually rise, there is no question.
It's the only way you fix Medicare, the only way you fix Social Security.
You will also have to means-test the benefits and declare there's not enough money.
It isn't "I put money in, I'm getting it back."
There is no money, it's a stack of paper.
There is no money in the Social Security account.
There is no money in the Medicare account.
There's only a promise to pay by the next generation, and the next generation's not big enough to pay it.
About Medicare?
Well, first of all the -- the plan gives people the option of -- of opting out.
But I think they will see a very good option here.
You know, the annual Medicare budget is over $600 billion.
And there are 48 million people involved -- 40 million, 65 and over, and 8 million other.
Divide that out.
That comes out to $12,500 for each one.
Now, I can tell you there are a lot of private-sector things that you could do with $12,500, which will get you a lot more than you get from this government program.
And that's really a theme of a lot of the things that I'm talking about.
How do we utilize our intellect rather than allowing the government to use its, quote, "intellect," in order to help us to be able to live healthier and better lives?
It was never intended that the government should be in every aspect of our lives.
This is a country that is of, for and by the people.
And -- and -- and I -- you know, Ben is absolutely right in saying that what we don't need to do is to send more money to Washington, D.C. to fix this problem.
And that's what you'll hear from Hillary Clinton -- and I've already heard from her -- is that, send more money in Social Security, send more money in Medicare taxes, send more money for Medicaid, and that's gonna solve the problem.
What we know is we're living longer.
That's a blessing.
It's a blessing that we're living longer, so we have to increase the retirement age to reflect that blessing.
We need to make sure that people understand, as Jeb said before, that if you've done extraordinarily well in this country, do you want them to take more out of your taxes now and think they're gonna give it back to you later?
Or would you rather take less later on?
No.
No.
What I said was that I think that Dr. Carson's ideas are good ideas.
They're not my ideas, and I don't necessarily agree with all of them.
But this is what you're seeing in the Republican debate that you didn't see in that Democrat debate.
You didn't see it for a minute.
You didn't see these kind of ideas being batted around, and being batted around in a way that's civil and smart and that's trying to help to inform the voter out there.
What you saw was a parade of, "I'll give you this for free; I'll give you that for free."
Let me tell you, everybody, when they say they want to give it to you for free, keep your hands on your wallets because they're coming to you to pay for it.
And that's why I think these ideas up here are great, and that's what we should have is have more discussions like this and less gotcha.
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing.
And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue.
The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates.
The Democrats can't even come up with one.
And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight.
Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations.
Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries.
My mother is on Medicare and Social Security.
I'm against anything that's bad for my mother.
So, we're talking about -- we're talking about reform for people like me and people like Senator Cruz, as he talked about earlier, who are years away from retirement that have a way to plan for these changes, and way that's very reasonable.
And it's not too much to ask of our generation after everything our parents and our grandparents did for us.
John, I -- if I -- a lot of people have jumped in here.
I'd like to jump in.
A lot of people have jumped in here.
I understand.
I would just say that...
...
I would just say this, we've heard a lot of great ideas up here, and I agree with what Senator Rubio said.
Every election we talk about this.
Every election we talk about Medicare and Social Security reform.
It never happens.
I would like to start with a basic.
Let us actually go to zero- based budgeting so we know where the money is being spent.
It's kind of basic.
There is a bill sitting in the House that would actually pass and have us go to zero-based budgeting so we know where every dime of your money is being spent instead of only talking about how much more we're going to spend year after year after year.
My point is this.
While there are lots of good ideas for reform, we have never tackled the basics.
And we finally need to tackle the basics to cut this government down to size and hold it accountable.
So let's start by knowing where your money is being spent by the federal government.
Liberty thrives when government is small.
I want a government so small I can barely see it.
I want a government so small that the individual has a chance to thrive and prosper.
I think, though, government is too big now.
And what you're going to see in Washington this week is establishment Republicans have made an agreement with the president to raise the debt ceiling in an unlimited fashion; no limit to the debt ceiling raise.
This is extraordinary.
It's extraordinarily wrong.
You'll see me on the floor of the Senate tomorrow filibustering this and saying enough is enough, no more debt.
I want to talk to the folks at home.
I want to ask you: Are you fed up with how Washington taxes you?
Are you fed up with how Washington wastes your money?
Are you concerned like I am that the debt and deficits of Washington, D.C. are endangering America's future?
I've got one more question for you then.
Are you serious about this election?
Because if you are, you need to elect someone who's deadly serious about changing this culture.
I am deadly serious about changing this culture.
I changed it in New Jersey.
I'm deadly serious about doing this job the right way.
I'm prepared.
I'm tested.
I'm ready.
And I want to make this our government.
For the people who say we can't do it, I say hell no, we can do it together.
You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington.
The natural next question is who actually has done so.
Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party?
When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight.
If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it.
In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America.
Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.
You know, every election we hear a lot of talk.
We hear a lot of good plans.
We hear actually a lot of good intentions.
But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed.
What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results.
That's how you go from secretary to CEO.
You lead and you produce results.
I will cut this government down to size and hold it accountable, simplify the tax code, roll back the regulations that have been spewing out of Washington, D.C. for 50 years.
I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary Clinton's worst nightmare.
And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina.
I will tell you this, I will beat Hillary Clinton.
And with your vote and your support and your prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of this great nation.
I just want to thank all my colleagues here for being civil, and not falling for the traps.
And, I also just want to thank the audience for being attentive, and noticing the questions, and the noticing the answers.
And, this is what I am finding throughout America.
People are waking up because it is going to be us who will determine the direction of our country.
And, it was made for we the people, we are the ones who decide who we are, and we should never give away the values and principles that made America into a great nation for the sake of political correctness.
Our country doesn't win anymore.
We used to win, we don't win anymore.
We lose on trade.
We lose with ISIS.
We lose with one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated of any kind, that's our recent catastrophe with Iran.
We don't win.
Let me give you one quick example.
These folks, CNBC, they had it down at three, three and a half hours.
I just read today in the New York Times, $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
I went out and said, it's ridiculous.
Nobody -- I could stand up here all night.
Nobody wants to watch three and a half, or three hours.
It was a back sacrifice, and I have to hand it to Ben.
We called Ben, he was with me 100%.
We called in, we said, that's it.
We're not doing it.
They lost a lot of money, everybody said it couldn't be done.
Everybody said it was going to be three hours, three and a half, including them, and in about two minutes I renegotiated it so we can get the hell out of here.
Not bad.
And, I'll do that with the country.
We will make America great again.
And, thank you everybody.
Just for the record.
That's not right.
That is absolutely not right.
You know that.
That is not right.
You know, America doesn't owe me anything.
I have a debt to America I'll never repay.
This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family.
My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did.
We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.
The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special.
But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away.
And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president.
Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
America's at a crossroads.
The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse.
I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.
I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee.
I will do so in a way that will bring people together.
We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.
Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again.
Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again.
I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
You know, I know to a lot of people in the media, this is just a great big game, and we're the players.
And, we come out here, and we do our thing.
And, sometimes we're held up in contempt by people who write columns, but, I guarantee you to every person on this stage there's something deep inside of us that would cause us to give up our livelihoods and step out on this stage and fight for the people of America.
I've got five grandkids.
I do not want to walk my five grandkids through the charred remains of a once great country called America, and say, "Here you go, $20 trillion dollars of debt.
Good luck making something out of this mess."
And, for those of us who are serious enough to run for president, think long and hard why we're here, and hopefully you'll know we're not here for ourselves.
We honest to god are here to get this country back on track.
I know this, I certainly am.
...Thank you.
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?"
I said, absolutely, you can still change the world.
And, you know the old inscription, if you save one life, you've changed the world.
Folks, we have a problem here with the leadership in Washington, but I'll tell you another problem.
We need to rebuild our families.
We need to have stronger families.
We need to know who our neighbors are.
We need to come together as a country because we have to realize that America is great, not from the top-down.
Oh yeah, we want to elect a good president, but America is great from the bottom-up, and the bottom-up is us in our families, in our communities, in our neighborhoods.
We will renew America if we work together, and I am totally confident that we will.
And God bless America.
It's good to be with you.
After those four years of looking back and being prepared, the preparation to be the most powerful individual in the world requires an extraordinary amount of work: not just having been the governor of the 12th largest economy in the world, which I might add, we added 1.5 million jobs during that period of time over that 2007 through 2014 period, a period when America was going through the most deep recession it had been through since the Great Depression.
I think Americans want someone to have a track record of showing them how to get this country back on record, someone who will stand up and every day project that best days of America are in front of us.
And I will assure you, as the governor of the state of Texas, and as those last four years have shown me, the preparation to be ready to stand on this stage and talk about those monetary policies, those domestic policies, and those foreign policies, Americans are going to see that I am ready to be that individual.
Well, I would begin by reminding people that at this point in previous presidential elections, Jimmy Carter couldn't win, Ronald Reagan couldn't win, Bill Clinton couldn't win, and neither could've Barack Obama.
I started as a secretary and became ultimately the chief executive of the largest technology company in the world, almost $90 billion in over 150 countries.
I know personally how extraordinary and unique this nation is.
I think to be commander in chief in the 21st century requires someone who understands how the economy works, someone who understands how the world works and who's in it; I know more world leaders on the stage today than anyone running, with the possible exception of Hillary Clinton; understands bureaucracies, how to cut them down to size and hold them accountable; and understands technology, which is a tool, but it's also a weapon that's being used against us.
Most importantly, I think I understand leadership, which sometimes requires a tough call in a tough time.
But mostly, the highest calling of leadership is to challenge the status-quo and unlock the potential of others.
We need a leader who will lead the resurgence of this great nation and unlock its potential once again.
Thank you.
I would say the message that got us the win in Iowa and 10 other states against pretty overwhelming odds, is the message that's going to deliver us in this election.
I've got a track record.
The reason I did so well last time is not just because of the vision, it's because I have a track record in Washington, D.C. of getting things done.
Iran sanctions -- the Iran sanctions that brought them to the table, those are sanctions that we put in place when I was in the United States Senate, and a whole host of other things that put me in a position of saying, I not only have a great vision, but I can govern effectively in Washington.
Well, first of all, thank you all for having us.
You know, I won two record elections.
Last time I was elected governor, won a record margin in my state.
Martha, we got a lot of politicians that will kiss babies, cut ribbons, do whatever it takes to be popular.
That's not why I ran for office.
I ran for office to make the generational changes in Louisiana.
We've cut 26 percent of our budget.
We have 30,000 fewer state bureaucrats than the day I took office.
I don't think anybody has cut that much government anywhere, at any time.
As a result, eight credit upgrades; as a result, a top ten state for private sector job creation.
And we fought for statewide school choice, where the dollars follow the child, instead of the child following the dollars.
We've been the most pro-life state six years in a row.
My point is this: I won two landslide elections, I made big changes.
I think our country is tired of the politicians who simply read the polls and fail to lead.
Both Democrats and Republicans have gotten us in the mess we're in -- $18 trillion of debt, a bad deal with Iran, we're not staying with Israel.
I think the American people are look for real leadership.
That's what I've done in Louisiana, that's what I'll do in America.
You can trust me to do the following: that when I get on change with Hillary Clinton, we won't be debating about the science, we'll be debating about the solutions.
In her world, cap- and-trade would dominate, that we will destroy the economy in the name of helping the environment.
In my world, we'll focus on energy independence and a clean environment.
A healthy environment, a strong economy and energy independent America -- that would be the purpose of my presidency, is break the strangle hold that people enjoy on fossil fuels who hate our guts.
I think he means somebody who hasn't been a career politician, and who's been out of office for awhile.
I think the last eight years in the private sector have allowed me to see government from the outside, and I think that is a positive thing.
Yes, I thought about running four years ago.
I was ready to lead, but I wasn't ready to run.
But I look at this country today, and I look at how divided we are, I look at how politicians are always posturing and issuing sound bites but never solving problems.
What I did in New York was bring people together, an overwhelmingly Democratic state.
But I was able to get Democrats to support the most conservative sweeping policy changes in any state in America.
And when I look at Washington today, we need to bring us together.
We need to solve problems, we need to rebuild our military so we can stand up to radical Islam, we need to get our economy growing much faster by throwing out the corrupt tax code and lowering the rates.
We have to end crony capitalism in Washington, where the lobbyists and the powerful can get tax breaks and tax credits, and the American people don't get laws in their interest.
I can do that.
And I can do it regardless of what the makeup of Congress is because I did it in New York state.
So we need new leadership -- yes.
I will be that new leader.
I think the times are different now.
I think the times are much more serious.
Because Obama and Clinton policies, the United States is moving further and further into a decline.
I want to reverse that decline.
That's why I've entered this race, and I think I have the experience to do it.
Former elected prosecutor, attorney general, governor, I was elected to all of those offices.
A person who, in fact, has a long experience in foreign-policy issues, which is different from many of the other governors and prospective governors who are running.
I was an Army intelligence agent and a veteran during the Cold War, assigned to West Germany.
I was the chairman of the National Commission on Homeland Security and Terrorism for the United States for five years.
I was a person who has dealt extensively with these homeland security issues.
I was a governor during the 9/11 attack.
I understand both of these issues, how to build the economy and doing that as a governor who'd built jobs, had cut taxes and also a governor who understands foreign-policy, and that's why I entered this race.
Well, when you look at the celebrity of Donald Trump, then I think that says a lot about it.
One thing I like to remind people is, back in 2007, Rudy Giuliani was leading the polls for almost a year.
I'll suggest a part of that was his celebrity.
Fred Thompson was the other one, a man who had spent a lot of time on that screen.
I've had my issues with Donald Trump.
I talked about Donald Trump from the standpoint of being an individual who was using his celebrity rather than his conservatism.
How can you run for the Republican nomination and be for single- payer health care?
I mean, I ask that with all due respect.
And nobody, nobody on either one of these stages has done more than I've done and the people of the State of Texas to deal with securing that border.
We sent our Texas ranger recon teams.
We sent our parks and wildlife wardens.
I deployed the National Guard after I stood on the ramp in Dallas, Texas and looked the president of the United States in the eye and said, "Mr. President, if you won't secure the border, Texas will," and that's exactly what we did.
We need a president that doesn't just talk a game, but a president that's got real results.
Well, I don't know.
I didn't get a phone call from Bill Clinton before I jumped in the race.
Did any of you get a phone call from Bill Clinton?
I didn't.
Maybe it's because I hadn't given money to the foundation or donated to his wife's Senate campaign.
Here's the thing that I would ask Donald Trump in all seriousness.
He is the party's frontrunner right now, and good for him.
I think he's tapped into an anger that people feel.
They're sick of politics as usual.
You know, whatever your issue, your cause, the festering problem you hoped would resolved, the political class has failed you.
That's just a fact, and that's what Donald Trump taps into.
I would also just say this.
Since he has changed his mind on amnesty, on health care and on abortion, I would just ask, what are the principles by which he will govern?
Well, to start with, unlike President Obama, I'll actually name the enemy that we confront.
We've got a president who cannot bring himself to say the words "radical Islamic terrorism."
Now, Bill, he loves to criticize America, apologize for us, criticize medieval Christians.
How can we beat an enemy if our commander-in-chief doesn't have the moral honesty and clarity to say that Islam has a problem, and that problem is radical Islam, to say they've got to condemn not generic acts of violence, but the individual murderers who are committing these acts of violence.
We've got a president who instead says, we're going to change hearts and minds.
Well, you know what?
Sometimes you win a war by killing murderous, evil terrorists.
We're going to take the political handcuffs off the military.
We will arm and train the Kurds.
We will work with our Sunni allies.
They know we will be committed to victory.
We had this failed red line with Assad and it discouraged folks that want to help us on the ground.
Finally, we'll take off the political handcuffs.
We'll go to the Congress.
This president has gone to Congress and said give me a three-year deadline, give me a ban on ground troops.
I'm going to go to the commanders and say give me a plan to win.
You can't send your troops into harm's way unless you give them every opportunity to be successful.
If we don't stop them over there, they are coming here just as sure as I stand here in front of you.
One thing I want to be clear about tonight.
If you're running for president of the United States and you don't understand that we need more American ground forces in Iraq and that America has to be part of a regional ground force that will go into Syria and destroy ISIL in Syria, then you're not ready to be commander in chief.
And you're not serious about destroying ISIL.
According to the generals that I know and trust, this air campaign will not destroy ISIL.
We need a ground force in Iraq and Syria, and America has to be part of that ground force.
According to the FBI and the director of national intelligence, Syria's becoming a perfect platform to strike our nation.
I've got a very simple strategy as your president against ISIL.
Whatever it takes, as long as it takes, to defeat them.
Martha, religious liberty doesn't include encouraging a fellow American to engage in violent jihad and kill an American here.
That is not protected free speech.
That is not protected religious belief.
That is like shouting "fire" in a crowded theater, and that is illegal, and I would do everything in our power not just to go after those who are here who we know who are here, before they can radicalize other Americans to carry out attacks, and it's not just the ones they've arrested.
Think back to Garland, Texas.
But for that Texas police officer, we could have had a mass murder.
We have to shut down their internet capability.
We have to shut down, whether or not they're in prisons preaching or on -- in mosques preaching.
No radical Islam that is allowed to engage in encouraging violence against Americans, that is not protected speech.
Let me just add one thing about ISIS over there.
We have got to destroy their training camps and recruiting centers.
I was governor of New York on September 11.
I know that we are at greater risk today than at any time since then of another attack.
We have got to destroy their training camps over there before they can attack us here.
I don't agree that we're going to occupy and spend another decade or a trillion dollars.
What we need to do is destroy their ability to attack us here over there, and then get out.
You know, I have two sons.
Both served.
One as a marine officer in Iraq, one as an army officer in Afghanistan.
I do not see -- want to see one parent or loved one worrying about getting a call in the middle of the night.
I would not place one American life at risk unless it was absolutely necessary.
But to destroy ISIS, it is necessary.
Let me say first that it is disturbing that every time one of these home-grown terrorist attacks occurs, and, as your question points out, they are occurring with far too great frequency, it turns out we had warning signals.
It turns out we knew something was wrong.
It turns out some dot wasn't connected, and so the first thing we have to do is make sure that everyone and every responsible agency is attuned to all of these possibilities and symptoms.
We even had warnings about the Boston Marathon bombers, and yet the dots weren't connected.
So we need to get on a different mindset.
Secondly, I certainly support that we need to tear down cyber walls, not on a mass basis, but on a targeted basis.
But let me just say that we also need down -- to tear down the cyber walls that China is erecting, that Russia is erecting.
We need to be very well aware of the fact that China and Russia are using technology to attack us, just as ISIS is using technology to recruit those who would murder American citizens.
I do not believe that we need to wholesale destroy every American citizen's privacy in order to go after those that we know are suspect or are -- are already a problem.
But yes, there is more collaboration required between private sector companies and the public sector.
And specifically, we know that we could have detected and repelled some of these cyber attacks if that collaboration had been permitted.
A law has been sitting -- languishing, sadly, on Capitol Hill and has not yet been passed, and it would help.
I absolutely would call on them to collaborate and cooperate, yes.
Well, yes, indeed.
I chaired the National Commission on Homeland Security Committee for United States.
We warned about the 9/11 attack before the 9/11 attack occurred.
I was the governor during the 9/11 attack when the Pentagon was struck.
And I'm going to tell you this, we need to use the benefit of our law enforcement people across this country, combined with our intelligence people across this country.
We need to use our technological advantages, because what we've warned of is an international guerrilla movement that threatens this country.
It's going to happen in this country, there are going to be further attacks.
We have to be prepared to defend the American people, prepare them for a long war, stand up for the defense of this country, and stand up for the values of this country...
My father was born in Italy, and shortly after he was born my grandfather immigrated to this country.
And under the laws of this country, he wasn't allowed to be with his father for seven years.
Spent the first seven years of his life in Fascist Italy, under Benito Mussolini.
Not a very pleasant place to be.
I asked my dad after -- obviously, when I found out about this.
And I said, "Didn't you resent America for not letting you be with your father in those formative and very threatening years?"
You know what he said to me?
America was worth the wait.
We're a country of laws, Bill.
We're a country of laws, not of men, not of people who do whatever they want to do.
I know we have a president who wants to do whatever he wants to do, and take his pen and his phone and just tell everybody what he thinks is best.
But the reason America is a great country, the reason is because our compassion is in our laws.
And when we live by those laws and we treat everybody equally under the law, that's when people feel good about being Americans.
We're going to be tough at the border, we're going to be tough on all of the illegal immigrants that everybody else in this field -- we're going to be different.
We're going to be actually out there trying to create a better life for hard-working Americans.
Bill, here's the interesting position on this.
Americans are tired of hearing this debate -- want to go to, what are you going to do about illegal immigration?
For 30 years this country has been baited with that.
All the way back to when Ronald Reagan signed a piece of legislation that basically allowed for amnesty for over 4 million people, and the border is still not secure.
The American people are never going to trust Washington, D.C., and for good reason.
We hear all this discussion about well, I would do this, or I would do that, when the fact is, the border is still porous.
Until we have a president of the United States that gets up every day and goes to the Oval Office with the intent purpose of securing that border, and there's not anybody on either one of these stages that has the experience of dealing with this as I have for over 14 years with that 1200-mile border.
We have to put the personnel on that border in the right places; you have to put the strategic fencing in place; and you have to have aviation assets that fly all the way from Tijuana to El Paso to Brownsville, Texas -- 1,933 miles looking down 24/7, with the technology to be able to identify what individuals are doing, and ID when they are in obviously illegal activities or suspicious activities, and quick response teams come.
At that particular point in time, then Americans will believe that Washington is up to a conversation to deal with the millions of people that are here illegally, but not until.
If you elect me president of the United States, I will secure that southern border.
Right.
I think it's -- yeah, I think it's a one-two punch.
Number one, we have to create better paying jobs.
I mean, that's just the bottom line.
We haven't.
And that's the reason that I've said under my presidency, we'll create jobs and make American the number one manufacturing country in the world.
If we want to create jobs for the folks that you're talking about, who are having trouble getting off government benefits, primarily because of their low skill level, there is no better way -- it's worked for 100 years in America -- putting people back to work in manufacturing is it.
I'm going to be introducing a plan which I call the 2020 Perfect Vision for America.
It's a 20 percent flat rate tax, it'll take a blowtorch to the -- to the IRS.
It will create a manufacturing juggernaut in this country.
And you combine that with reforms of our welfare system.
You're looking at the -- at the man who introduced and fought on the floor as a freshman senator and passed the Welfare Reform Act of 1996 over two President Clinton vetoes.
Got 70 votes in the United States Senate.
Bipartisan issue.
And I ended a federal entitlement.
Never been done before, never been done since.
What we need to do is take the rest of the federal entitlements, not just welfare, but food stamps and Medicaid and housing programs and do the same thing we did with welfare.
Work requirements and time limits.
That will change everything.
I'll tell them that we're going to grow the economy so that we can give people better opportunities so they don't have to rely exclusively on benefit types of programs.
Some do, but many Americans are dying to have an opportunity to grow and to create something inside this economy.
And I'm glad that I have a chance to answer this question.
I've had the growth code (ph) there for about five years, and it's this specific program.
We're going to do a tax cut for all Americans.
We're going to have a three-bracket tax code, 10, 15 and 25 percent.
We're going to combine all commercial activity in business into one place in the tax code and charge it 15 percent, which is going to suddenly make us competitive with the rest of the world.
And we're going to eliminate the death tax.
With a couple of additional tweaks, we know what this will do.
It will cause the economy to grow, to explode, to create more jobs.
And first of all, we've got to recognize that there is problem that Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton have caused.
And that problem is too big regulations like the EPA, too much new taxes on business that we have seen and "Obamacare."
These are drags on the economy, it's a deliberate drag.
I propose to reverse that and get this economy moving again.
Well, this goes to the question you were just asking.
Look, under President Obama and Secretary Clinton, they're working hard to change the American dream into the European nightmare.
They do celebrate more dependence on the government.
Give Bernie Sanders credit.
At least he's honest enough to call himself a socialist.
Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, they're no better.
If we were to expand Medicaid, for every uninsured person we would cover, we'd kick more than one person out of private insurance or remove their opportunity to get private insurance.
We're going to have too many people in the cart rather than pulling the cart.
This isn't free money.
I know some people like to say, "well, this is free money."
We pay federal taxes.
We are borrowing money from China today.
The president of the United States admitting that he's weakening our government's position, our foreign policy standing, because he can't control spending in D.C..
I don't -- look, I don't think anybody should be expanding Medicaid.
I think it's a mistake to create new and more expensive entitlement programs when we can't afford the ones we've got today.
We've got to stop this culture of government dependence.
I'll say this.
I don't think anybody should expand Medicaid.
I think it was a mistake to expand Medicaid everywhere in Ohio and across the country.
I think he is right.
I don't think you expand entitlements when so many people are dependent on government and when the money the federal government is offering is going to be taken away from you after just a couple of years.
I changed that.
We put in place mandatory work fair (ph).
But we allowed people to keep health care.
We put in place child care support.
No, it should be repealed.
And by the way, when I left, there were over 1 million fewer people on welfare in New York state than when I took office...
... replacing dependency with opportunity.
We need to be on the side that keeps Iran from getting a nuclear weapon.
That's the side we need to be on, and that's the side of the bulk of the -- of the Middle East.
We need to have some coalitions in that part of the world to go after ISIS, but we also need to send a clear message.
And hopefully -- you know, Senator Graham, I -- I know where he's going to be on this, but we use Congress, and we use Congress to cut this funding.
One of the great challenges that we have, $150 billion is fixing to go to a country that killed our Marines in Lebanon, that used their weapons to kill our young men in Iran.
And the idea that this negotiation -- I will tell you one thing.
I would a whole lot rather had Carly Fiorina over there doing our negotiation than John Kerry.
Maybe we would've gotten a deal where we didn't give everything away.
But the issue for us is to have a Congress that stands up and says not only no, but "Hell no" to this money going to a regime that is going to use it for terror, Susan Rice has said that, and we need to stand up and strongly and clearly tell the ayatollah that -- whoever the next president of the United States is going to be, and I'll promise you, if it's me, the first thing that I will do is tear up that agreement with Iran.
Yeah.
Sometimes it's a complicated situation, but some things are black and white.
On day one in the Oval Office, I would make two phone calls.
The first one would be to my good friend, Bibi Netanyahu, to reassure him we will stand with the State of Israel.
The second will be to the supreme leader of Iran.
He might not take my phone call, but he would get the message, and the message is this: Until you open every nuclear and every military facility to full, open, anytime/anywhere, for real, inspections, we are going to make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system.
I hope Congress says no to this deal.
But realistically, even if they do, the money is flowing.
China and Russia have never been on our side of the table.
The Europeans have moved on.
We have to stop the money flow.
And by the way, as important as those two phone calls are, they are also very important because they say this.
America is back in the leadership business.
And when America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation.
Yes, our allies are not perfect.
But Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxies.
Let me tell you what I would do immediately, day two in the Oval Office.
I would hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies, not to talk them into this lousy deal with Iran, but to say to them, "what is it that you need to defeat ISIL?"
You know, Obama has presented the American people with a false choice every time.
It's what I've done or not done, or it's war.
It is a false choice.
King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I've known for a long time, has been asking for bombs and materiel.
We have not provided them.
He has gone to China.
The Kurds have been asking us to arm them for three years.
We haven't done so.
The Egyptians have asked us to share intelligence.
We're not doing it.
We have Arab allies.
They are not perfect.
I know every one.
But they need to see leadership, support and resolve from the United States of America, and we can help them defeat ISIS.
Well, as you know, I'm a former elected prosecutor, a former elected attorney general, trained at the University of Virginia in constitutional law, and I don't believe in litmus tests except this.
I believe we should be appointing Supreme Court justices who will follow the law and not try to make the law.
Now, the challenge we're seeing today is that the Supreme Court is being converted into some type of political body.
They have to have some legal basis and precedence for being able to follow the law instead of making the law up, and my goal is -- in appointing Supreme Court justices, would be to point -- to appoint justices who would follow the law.
Bill, I want to say one more thing about...
Not -- not on that, no.
But let me say one more thing.
I want to -- before my time runs out I want to get back to this issue of ISIS versus Iran.
It is Iran that's the expansionist power.
ISIL is trying to create themselves into a new state.
Our job has to be to recognize the conflict between the two.
I have proposed there be a Middle East NATO so that we can combine our allies there to stand up to Iranian expansion, and at the same time join together to begin to stop and this ISIL thing before it becomes an actual state.
Yes.
My heart has not changed, because I've always been appalled by abortion.
I'm a Catholic, I believe life begins at conception.
But as Bill said earlier, Roe v. Wade, it's has been the law for 42 years, and I don't think we should continue to try to change it.
But we can do is defund Planned Parenthood, and by the way, put in place an absolute permanent ban on any taxpayer dollars ever being used to fund abortions.
Also, when you look at these videos, they are horrific and show just a hideous disrespect for life.
What else we can do is that we should believe in science.
You know, Hillary Clinton's always saying how Republicans don't follow science?
Well, they're the ones not listening to the scientists today, because doctors say that at 20 weeks that is a viable life inside the womb.
And at that point, it's a life that we have the right to protect, and I think we should protect.
So, I would pass legislation outlawing abortion after 20 weeks.
It is Hillary, it is Biden, it is the others who insist on allowing abortion well into viable (inaudible) wrong, and that should be stopped.
Well, a couple of things.
Planned Parenthood had better hope that Hillary Clinton wins this election, because I guarantee under President Jindal, January 2017, the Department of Justice and the IRS and everybody else that we can send from the federal government will be going in to Planned Parenthood.
This is absolutely disgusting, and revolts the conscience of the nation.
Absolutely, we need to defund Planned Parenthood.
In my own state, for example, we launched an investigation, asked the FBI to cooperate.
We just, earlier this week, kicked them out of Medicaid in Louisiana as well, canceled their provider contract.
They don't provide any abortions in Louisiana.
But in terms of shutting down the government, I don't think President Obama should choose to shut down the government simply to send taxpayer dollars to this group that has been caught, I believe, breaking the law, but also offending our values and our ethics.
It is time for Republicans in D.C. to fight.
Too often, they give up, they negotiate with themselves.
They said they would get rid of the unconstitutional amnesty.
They didn't do that.
They said they would repeal Obamacare if we gave them the majority.
They didn't do that either.
They said they'd shrink and balance the budget.
They haven't done that.
Absolutely, they should fight to fund -- defund Planned Parenthood, and I don't think the president should shut down the government simply to send our taxpayer dollars to this group.
I don't think it's a war on women for all of us as Americans to stand up and stop harvesting organs from little babies.
Let's take the money that we would give to Planned Parenthood and put it in women's health care without having to harvest the organs of the unborn.
The only way we're going to defund Planned Parenthood is have a pro-life president.
You want to see a war on women?
Come with me to Iraq and Afghanistan, folks.
I've been there 35 times.
I will show you what they do to women.
These mythical Arab armies that my friends talk about that are going to protect us don't exist.
If I am president of the United States, we're going to send soldiers back to Iraq, back to Syria, to keep us from being attacked here and keep soldiers in Afghanistan because we must.
I cannot tell you how much our nation is threatened and how we need a commander in chief who understands the threats to this nation.
If you're running for president of the United States and you do not understand that we cannot defend this nation without more of our soldiers over there, you are not ready for this job.
Well, it's not a matter of what the first executive order would be, Bill.
The matter is what orders exist now that shouldn't exist?
The president has done an executive order with respect to illegal immigration that is illegal.
Illegal.
And it creates a -- a contempt for the law, for the rule of law.
If i were the president of the United States, I would go and look at every executive order that exists right now and determine which ones want to be voided, because the president shouldn't be legislating: not through that vehicle or any other.
We should be relying upon the leadership of the Congress to pass the laws.
Change the Mexico City policy, not take one dime of taxpayer money to fund abortion organizations overseas, and restore the NSA that's been gutted.
We're going dark when it comes to detecting the next attack.
We have gutted our ability to detect the next attack.
And I would not stand for that as president of the United States.
I would take the fight to these guys, whatever it took, as long as it took.
To repeal these unconstitutional illegal orders, whether it's amnesty or whether it's this president going around the Congress, whether it's in Obamacare, to restore the rule of law.
I'd also go after these sanctuary cities, do everything we can to make sure that we are not -- that we are actually prosecuting and cutting off funding for cities that are harboring illegal aliens, and then finally making sure the IRS is not going after conservative or religious groups.
I would sign an executive order protecting religious liberty, our first amendment rights, so Christian business owners and individuals don't face discrimination for having a traditional view of marriage.
It'll be a pretty busy day, but that Iran negotiation is going to be torn up on day one.
We're going to start the process of securing that border.
I'm also going to take a bottle of White-Out with me to get started on all those executive orders that Mr. Obama has put his name to.
It will be a long day.
Just ditto to that.
We're going to suspend -- I've -- I've said this for four years.
We're going to suspend and repeal every executive order, every regulation that cost American jobs and is -- is -- is impacting our freedom.
And second, the First Amendment Defense Act, which is protecting religious liberty, if it's not passed by then, which I suspect it won't, because the president will veto it, I will institute an executive order to make sure that people of faith are not being -- not being harassed and persecuted by the federal government for standing up for the religious beliefs.
I agree with my colleagues.
We need to begin by undoing -- I would begin by undoing a whole set of things that President Obama has done, whether it's illegal amnesty or this latest round of EPA regulations.
But let me go back to something that's very important.
We have been debating right here the core difference between conservatism and progressivism.
Conservatives, I am a conservative because I believe no one of us is any better than any other one of us.
Every one of us is gifted by God, whether it is those poor babies being picked over or it's someone whose life is tangled up in a web of dependence.
Progressives don't believe that.
They believe some are smarter than others, some are better than others, so some are going to need to take care of others.
That is the fight we have to have, and we have to undo a whole set of things that President Obama has done that get at the heart of his disrespect and disregard for too many Americans.
Bill, I defeated Mario Cuomo.
In the first day in office, my first executive order, I revoked every one of the executive orders that he had -- he had enacted over the prior 12 years.
I would do that to Barack Obama's executive orders.
But I'd sign a second one, as I did in New York, as well, having a hard hiring freeze on adding new employees except for the military or defense-related positions.
I'd sign that executive order.
When I left the workforce, New York State had been reduced by over 15 percent.
We can do that in Washington.
I will do that in Washington.
This is a great nation.
It is a unique nation in all of human history and on the face of the planet, because here, our founders believed that everyone has a right to fulfill their potential and that that right --they called it life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness -- comes from God and cannot be taken away by government.
We have arrived at a point in our nation's history where the potential of this nation and too many Americans is being crushed by the weight, the power, the cost, the complexity, the ineptitude, the corruption of the federal government, and only someone who will challenge the status quo of Washington, D.C. can lead the resurgence of this great nation.
I will do that.
I came to Washington, D.C. in 1990.
That sounds like a long time ago.
It was.
It was 25 years ago, and I came by defeating the Democratic incumbent.
I came as a reformer.
I started the Gang of Seven, and it led to the overtaking of the 40-year Democratic rule of Congress, because I didn't -- I stood up to the old-boy network in Washington, D.C. because I believed that Washington was not the solution, that Washington was the problem, just like Ronald Reagan said.
I was a child of Ronald Reagan.
And I went there, and for 16 years, I fought the insiders and was able to get things done.
That's the difference.
We need to elect someone who will stand with the American people, who understands its greatness, who understands what an open economy and freedom is all about, but at the same time, has a record of being able to get things done in Washington like we've never seen before.
Reforms, everything from moral and cultural issues to economic issues.
Those of you health savings accounts.
Health savings accounts are something that we introduced.
It's a private-sector solution that believes in freedom, not Obamacare that believes in government control.
Those are the things we brought, and we were able to get things done.
If you want someone who's not going to divide Washington, but gets things done, then you should make me your president.
Thank you.
First thing I'd tell the American people, whatever it takes to defend our nation, I would do.
To the 1 percent who have been fighting this war for over a decade, I'd try my best to be a commander-in-chief worthy of your sacrifice.
We're going to lose Social Security and Medicare if Republicans and Democrats do not come together and find a solution like Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill.
I will be the Ronald Reagan if I can find a Tip O'Neill.
When I was 21, my mom died.
When I was 22, my dad died.
We owned a liquor store, restaurant, bar and we lived in the back.
Every penny we needed from -- every penny we got from Social Security, because my sister was a minor, we needed.
Today, I'm 60, I'm not married, I don't have any kids.
I would give up some Social Security to save a system that Americans are going to depend on now and in the future.
Half of American seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check.
If you make your president, I'm going to put the country ahead of the party.
I'm going to do what it takes to defend this nation.
This nation has been great to me, and that's the only way I know to pay you back.
Divisive and with no vision.
No vision at all.
HEMMER: Wow.
Carly Fiorina.
Not trustworthy.
No accomplishment.
Well, let's go with three.
Good at email.
Socialist and government dependent.
Not the change we need at a time we need it.
Professional politician that can't be trusted.
Well, this is going to be a show me, don't tell me election.
I think America is just a few good decisions and a leadership change at the top away from the best years we've ever had.
And I think that the record of the governor of the last 14 years of the 12th largest economy in the world is just the medicine America is looking for.
Americans are looking for somebody that's going to give them, and there is a place in this country over the last eight years in particular that talked about hope every day, and they didn't just talk about it, they delivered it.
And that was the state of Texas.
And if we can do that in Texas, that 12th largest economy in the world, we can do it in America.
Our best days are in front of us.
We can reform those entitlements, we can change that corporate tax code and lower it.
We can put America back on track on a growth level and a growth rate that we've never seen in the history of this country.
Manufacturing will flow back into this country.
It just needs a corporate executive type at the top that's done it before.
And I will suggest to you nobody's done it like Rick Perry has done it over the last eight years.
And if you elect me president, we will bring incredible growth back to this country.
And as someone who's worn the uniform of the country, that's how we build our military back up.
I'll tell you how optimistic I am about America.
Karen and I have seven children.
You don't have seven children and bring them into this world if you're not optimistic about the future of this country.
I am, but people are upset, and they're upset for a reason about the future of this country.
Donald Trump actually seized on it when he talked about immigration.
And I think the reason he did is because immigration is sort of an example of what's broken and what's wrong in Washington, D..C.
You see, you have one side, the Democrats, and with immigration, all they care about is votes.
They don't care about American workers, they just care about bringing as many people in so they can get as many votes as they can.
ON the other side, you have so many Republicans, and what do they care about?
Helping business make profits.
There's nobody out there looking out for the American worker.
I'm looking out for the American worker.
I'm the only one on this stage who has a plan that's actually reduced -- actually going to reduce immigration.
Actually going to do something to help the American worker.
And you combine that with a plan to make manufacturing -- this country number one in manufacturing, you've got someone who's going to help revitalize and give hope to America, the place -- the place is that is the most hopeless today.
That's why I ask for your support for president.
You know, we've got a lot of great talkers running for president.
We've already got a great talker in the White House.
We cannot afford four more years of on the job training.
We need a doer, not a talker.
We also need a nominee, a candidate who will endorse our own principles.
Jeb Bush says we've got to be willing to lose the primary in order to win the general.
Let me translate that for you.
That's the establishment telling us to hide our conservative principles to get the left and the media to like us.
That never works.
If we do that again, we will lose again, we will deserve to lose again.
One principle, for example, we've got to embrace is on immigration.
We must insist on assimilation -- immigration without assimilation is an invasion.
We need to tell folks who want to come here, they need to come here legally.
They need to learn English, adopt our values, roll up their sleeves and get to work.
I'm tired of the hyphenated Americans and the division.
I've got the backbone, I've got the band width, I've got the experience to get us through this.
I'm asking folks not just to join my campaign, but join a cause.
It is time to believe in America again.
MACCALLUM: Thank you, Governor.
Hillary Clinton lies about Benghazi, she lies about e- mails.
She is still defending Planned Parenthood, and she is still her party's frontrunner.
2016 is going to be a fight between conservatism, and a Democrat party that is undermining the very character of this nation.
We need a nominee who is going to throw every punch, not pull punches, and someone who cannot stumble before he even gets into the ring.
I am not a member of the political class.
I am a conservative; I can win this job, I can do this job, I need your help, I need your support.
I will, with your help and support, lead the resurgence of this great nation.
Thank you.
We need somebody ready to be commander-in-chief on day one, who understands there are no moderates in Iran, they've been killed a long time ago.
That the Ayatollah is a radical jihadist who really means it when he chants, "Death to America, death to Israel."
And this deal is giving him a pathway to a bomb, a missile to deliver it, and money to pay for it all.
We need a president who can solve our problems, bring us together.
We're becoming Greece if we don't work together.
At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, our best days are ahead of us only if we work together, and I intend to put this country on a path of success by working together and doing the hard things that should have been done a very long time ago.
With all the candidates, why me?
My background is different.
I look at Washington, and I hear the talk, and I see the promises and it seems nothing ever changes.
Washington gets bigger, taxes get higher, and the American people feel more distance from our government.
I have the opportunity not just to run, but to win in the deep blue state of New York three times.
And not only did I win, but I then worked with a Democratic legislature to put in place the most sweeping conservative reforms of any state in America, taking us from the most dangerous state in America to the fourth safest; reducing our welfare rolls by over 1 million, and replacing over 700,000 private sector jobs.
I can govern by bringing people together.
And also, I've been tested in a way no one else has.
I was governor on September 11th, and I'm proud of my leadership in bringing New York through that time.
And when I left, we were stronger, we were safer, and we were more united than at any time in my lifetime.
We need to bring people together in Washington.
The talk has got to stop, the action has got to begin.
People can promise you something, I delivered in the blue state of New York.
I will deliver for the American people if I have the privilege of leading this country.
Well, I was a conservative governor of Virginia, I governed that way, and that's my track record.
But the key thing that we're seeing now is serious challenges to this country that must change, the direction of this nation must change.
And that's why I've offered a specific program to the people of America tonight to address the fundamental problem of getting our country growing again, getting our economy growing, wages up, opportunities for people.
And second, the international crisis we are facing is most dreadful and most dangerous.
I have the experience as a prosecutor, attorney general, governor, United States Army intelligence veteran, governor during the 9/11 attack, chairman of the Terrorism Commission for this country.
It's time for real substance and real experience.
And that's what I'll offer to the people of the United States in this candidacy for the presidency.
Wow.
Whoa.
That is some group of people.
Thousands.
So nice, thank you very much.
That's really nice.
Thank you.
It's great to be at Trump Tower.
It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York.
And it's an honor to have everybody here.
This is beyond anybody's expectations.
There's been no crowd like this.
And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in.
They didn't know the air-conditioner didn't work.
They sweated like dogs.
They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there.
How are they going to beat ISIS?
I don't think it's gonna happen.
Our country is in serious trouble.
We don't have victories anymore.
We used to have victories, but we don't have them.
When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal?
They kill us.
I beat China all the time.
All the time.
They beat us all the time.
When do we beat Mexico at the border?
They're laughing at us, at our stupidity.
And now they are beating us economically.
They are not our friend, believe me.
But they're killing us economically.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems.
Thank you.
It's true, and these are the best and the finest.
When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best.
They're not sending you.
They're not sending you.
And some, I assume, are good people.
But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting.
And it only makes common sense.
It only makes common sense.
They're sending us not the right people.
It's coming from more than Mexico.
It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably -- probably -- from the Middle East.
But we don't know.
Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening.
And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast.
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East.
They've become rich.
I'm in competition with them.
Can you believe this?
When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest.
They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken.
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has.
And in 19 -- and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said -- and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever.
But I said, "Don't hit Iraq," because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East.
Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq.
Think of it.
Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league.
We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq.
We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love -- they're great -- all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.
And we have nothing.
We can't even go there.
We have nothing.
And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
2,000?
You would say maybe two, maybe four?
You're right.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product -- a sign of strength, right?
But not for us.
Whoever heard of this?
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978.
But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.
They all have jobs.
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old.
They don't know if it worked.
And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue.
They don't know what they're doing.
They don't know what they're doing."
You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it's virtually useless.
It's virtually useless.
It is a disaster.
And remember the $5 billion Web site?
I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place.
I hire people, they do a Web site.
It costs me $3.
$5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action.
Nothing's gonna get done.
They will not bring us -- believe me -- to the promised land.
They will not.
As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans.
And they're wonderful people.
I like them.
They all want me to support them.
They don't know how to bring it about.
They come up to my office.
I'm meeting with three of them in the next week.
And they don't know -- "Are you running?
Are you not running?
Could we have your support?
What do we do?
How do we do it?"
I like them.
And I hear their speeches.
And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China.
When was the last time you heard China is killing us?
They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe.
It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible.
They're killing us.
But you don't hear that from anybody else.
You don't hear it from anybody else.
And I watch the speeches.
Thank you.
I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen.
And people are saying, "What's going on?
I just want a job.
Just get me a job.
I don't need the rhetoric.
I want a job."
And that's what's happening.
And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in '16, 2016.
Obama is going to be out playing golf.
He might be on one of my courses.
I would invite him, I actually would say.
I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to -- I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac.
If he'd like to play, that's fine.
In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016.
Really big league.
It is going to be amazingly destructive.
Doctors are quitting.
I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it.
I have more accountants than I have nurses.
It's a disaster.
My patients are beside themselves.
They had a plan that was good.
They have no plan now."
We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be -- and -- and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody.
Let it be for everybody.
But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government.
And we can do it.
So I've watched the politicians.
I've dealt with them all my life.
If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you.
You're certainly not very good.
And that's what we have= representing us.
They will never make America great again.
They don't even have a chance.
They're controlled fully -- they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.
Yes, they control them.
Hey, I have lobbyists.
I have to tell you.
I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me.
They're great.
But you know what?
it won't happen.
It won't happen.
Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country.
We have to stop, and it has to stop now.
Now, our country needs -- our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now.
We need a leader that wrote "The Art of the Deal."
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets.
Our vets have been abandoned.
And we also need a cheerleader.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well.
I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country.
I think he'd be a great spirit."
He was vibrant.
He was young.
I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
He's not a leader.
That's true.
You're right about that.
But he wasn't a cheerleader.
He's actually a negative force.
He's been a negative force.
He wasn't a cheerleader; he was the opposite.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again.
It's not great again.
We need -- we need somebody -- we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again.
We can do that.
And, I will tell you, I love my life.
I have a wonderful family.
They're saying, "Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough."
You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office.
Just can't happen.
And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
So ladies and gentlemen...I am officially running...... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
It can happen.
Our country has tremendous potential.
We have tremendous people.
We have people that aren't working.
We have people that have no incentive to work.
But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job.
And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be -- they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving.
It can happen.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created.
I tell you that.
I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places.
I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money.
So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal's even better.
How stupid are our leaders?
How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen?
How stupid are they?
I'm going to tell you -- thank you.
I'm going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I'm totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.
Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue.
Our president doesn't have a clue.
He's a bad negotiator.
He's the one that did Bergdahl.
We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.
We get Bergdahl.
We get a traitor.
That's the negotiator we have.
Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran.
He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long.
It's a disaster, and we have to protect Israel.
But...
So we need people -- I'm a free trader.
But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you.
If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid.
We have people that aren't smart.
And we have people that are controlled by special interests.
And it's just not going to work.
So, here's a couple of stories happened recently.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer.
And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it.
I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything -- everything, they got away with it again.
And it's impossible for our people here to compete.
So I want to tell you this story.
A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago.
He's very upset.
I said, "What's your problem?"
He said, "You know, I make great product."
And I said, "I know.
I know that because I buy the product."
He said, "I can't get it into China.
They won't accept it.
I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back.
They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."
I said, "Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible.
Does anyone know this?"
He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."
I said, "They send it back?"
Yeah.  TRUMP R 15 75 0 N So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff.  TRUMP R 15 75 1 N They're not supposed to be doing that.  TRUMP R 15 75 2 N I told them.
Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.
Ask Boeing.
They wanted Boeing's secrets.
They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.
Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid.
I like China.
I sell apartments for -- I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China.
Am I supposed to dislike them?
I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war.
Very valuable.
I love China.
The biggest bank in the world is from China.
You know where their United States headquarters is located?
In this building, in Trump Tower.
I love China.
People say, "Oh, you don't like China?"
No, I love them.
But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that.
There's too much -- it's like -- it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team.
That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders.
They are ripping us.
We are rebuilding China.
We're rebuilding many countries.
China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it.
They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes.
And they're all over the place.
We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them.
We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game.
We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.
Now they're going militarily.
They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea.
A military island.
Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country -- we would never build in an ocean.
They built it in about one year, this massive military port.
They're building up their military to a point that is very scary.
You have a problem with ISIS.
You have a bigger problem with China.
And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.
So this man tells me about the manufacturing.
I say, "That's a terrible story.
I hate to hear it."
But I have another one, Ford.
So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out.
Everybody thought the deal was dead.
Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently.
Everybody thought it was a done deal.
It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee.
Great state, great people.
All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee.
They're gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead.
Not good.
Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico.
$2.5 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world.
Ford.
Good company.... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in -- and I wouldn't even use -- you know, I have -- I know the smartest negotiators in the world.
I know the good ones.
I know the bad ones.
I know the overrated ones.
You get a lot of them that are overrated.
They're not good.
They think they are.
They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph).
But they're not good.
But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country.
Believe me, folks.
We will do very, very well, very, very well.
But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one.
I would call up the head of Ford, who I know.
If I was president, I'd say, "Congratulations.
I understand that you're building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."
And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right?
How does that help us?  TRUMP R 15 94 1 N Where is that good?
It's not.
So I would say, "Congratulations.
That's the good news.
Let me give you the bad news.
Now, here's what is going to happen.
If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're (inaudible).
And here's what's going to happen.
They're not so stupid.
They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it.
But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford."
And guess what?
No problem.
They're going to build in Mexico.
They're going to take away thousands of jobs.
It's very bad for us.
So under President Trump, here's what would happen:
The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news.
But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day.
You know, they want to be a little cool.
And he'll say, "Please, please, please."
He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, "No interest."
Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, "Sorry, fellas.
No interest," because I don't need anybody's money.
It's nice.
I don't need anybody's money.
I'm using my own money.
I'm not using the lobbyists.
I'm not using donors.
I don't care.
I'm really rich.
I (inaudible).
And by the way, I'm not even saying that in a -- that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So -- because we got to make the country rich.
It sounds crass.
Somebody said, "Oh, that's crass."
It's not crass.
We got $18 trillion in debt.
We got nothing but problems.
We got a military that needs equipment all over the place.
We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.
We've got nothing.
We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country.
All these other people want to cut the hell out of it.
I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it.
But here's what's going to happen:
After I'm called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I'm called by all of the special interests and by the -- the donors and by the lobbyists -- and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero -- I'll get a call the next day from the head of Ford.
He'll say.
Please reconsider, I'll say no.
He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico."
That's it.
They have no choice.
They have no choice.
There are hundreds of things like that.
I'll give you another example.
Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day.
$1 billion a day.
I love the Saudis.
Many are in this building.
They make a billion dollars a day.
Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships.
We say "we're gonna protect."
What are we doing?
They've got nothing but money.
If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune.
They wouldn't be there except for us.
And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen.
You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory.
Two weeks later, the place was blown up.
Everybody got out -- and they kept our equipment.
They always keep our equipment.
We ought to send used equipment, right?
They always keep our equipment.
We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be -- we ought to send our surplus.
We're always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.
But look at that border with Saudi Arabia.
Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen?
Saudi Arabia without us is gone.
They;re gone.
And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq.
You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now -- it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run.
I'm running.
But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate.
I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq.
He couldn't answer the question.
He didn't know.
I said, "Is he intelligent?"
Then I looked at Rubio.
He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing?
He didn't know.
He couldn't answer the question.
How are these people gonna lead us?
How are we gonna -- how are we gonna go back and make it great again?
We can't.
They don't have a clue.
They can't lead us.
They can't.
They can't even answer simple questions.
It was terrible.
But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble.
Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place.
And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders.
They were smarter than our leaders.
There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again.
Because we need money.
We're dying.
We're dying.
We need money.
We have to do it.
And we need the right people.
So Ford will come back.
They'll all come back.
And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence.
Somebody said -- thank you, darlin'.
Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person."
That's true.
But actually I am.
I think I am a nice person.
People that know me, like me.
Does my family like me?
I think so, right.
Look at my family.
I'm proud of my family.
By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job.
Did she do a great job?
Great.
Jared (ph), Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family.
They're a great family.
So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person.
How can you get people to vote for you?"
I said, "I don't know."
I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person.
I give a lot of money away to charities and other things.
I think I'm actually a very nice person."
But, I said, "This is going to be an election that's based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people.
And they're tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world.
But we're becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything.
So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I'll do.
I'll do it.
Because a lot of people said, "He'll never run.
Number one, he won't want to give up his lifestyle."
They're right about that, but I'm doing it.
Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth.
And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.
So I said, "That's OK." I'm proud of my net worth.
I've done an amazing job.
I started off -- thank you -- I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said -- and I love my father.
I learned so much.
He was a great negotiator.
I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors.
But I learned a lot.
But he used to say, "Donald, don't go into Manhattan.
That's the big leagues.
We don't know anything about that.
Don't do it."
I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan.
I gotta build those big buildings.
I gotta do it, Dad.
I've gotta do it."
And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals -- the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
I was responsible for the convention center on the west side.
I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young.
And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.
But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks."
So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success.
I really am.
I've employed -- I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime.
That means medical.
That means education.
That means everything.
So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary.
But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't extensions or anything.
We'll be filing it right on time.
We don't need anything.
And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion."
So I said (ph), "No, that's the wrong number.
That's the wrong number.
Not assets."
So they put together this.
And before I say it, I have to say this.
I made it the old-fashioned way.
It's real estate.
You know, it's real estate.
It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world.
In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you don't have enough borrowings.
Could we loan you $4 billion"?
I said, "I don't need it.
I don't want it.
And I've been there.
I don't want it."
But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted.
So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it'll be well-over $10 billion.
But here, a total net worth of -- net worth, not assets, not -- a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets -- Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York -- many other places all over the world.
So the total is $8,737,540,00.
Now I'm not doing that...I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what?
I don't have to brag.
I don't have to, believe it or not.
I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs.
We need that thinking.
We have the opposite thinking.
We have losers.
We have losers.
We have people that don't have it.
We have people that are morally corrupt.
We have people that are selling this country down the drain.
So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years -- you know, we're at $8 trillion now.
We're soon going to be at $20 trillion.
According to the economists -- who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying -- that $24 trillion -- we're very close -- that's the point of no return.
$24 trillion.
We will be there soon.
That's when we become Greece.
That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable.
And we're gonna be there very soon.
We're gonna be there very soon.
So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly.
I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare.
Mark my words.
Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump.
Nobody.
I will find -- within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy.
I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work.
Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around.
I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons.
And we won't be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who's making a horrible and laughable deal, who's just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg.
I won't be doing that.
And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race.
That I can tell you.
I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.
Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.
Now, it's very interesting.
Today I heard it.
Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are.
And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns.
I didn't want guns.
And now since this happened" -- it's up in the prison area -- "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns.
We now have a gun on every table.
We're ready to start shooting."
I said, "Very interesting."
So protect the Second Amendment.
End -- end Common Core.
Common Core should -- it is a disaster.
Bush is totally in favor of Common Core.
I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination.
He's weak on immigration.
He's in favor of Common Core.
How the hell can you vote for this guy?
You just can't do it.
We have to end -- education has to be local.
Rebuild the country's infrastructure.
Nobody can do that like me.
Believe me.
It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.
I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third.
What they do is unbelievable, how bad.
You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels.
It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington.
The Obama administration.
We got it.
It was the most highly sought after -- or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services.
We got it.
People were shocked, Trump got it.
Well, I got it for two reasons.
Number one, we're really good.
Number two, we had a really good plan.
And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement.
Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job.
And they wanted to make sure it got built.
So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports.
You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country.
You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor.
They throw down asphalt, and they throw.
You look at these airports, we are like a third world country.
And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world.
You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster.
You have all of these disastrous airports.
We have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts.
Have to do it.
Get rid of the fraud.
Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it.
People have been paying it for years.
And now many of these candidates want to cut it.
You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost.
Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.
Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble.
We have artificially low interest rates.
We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening.
We have a stock market that is so bloated.
Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens.
So be very, very careful.
And strengthen our military and take care of our vets.
So, so important.
Sadly, the American dream is dead.
But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
END.ETXJun 16, 2015 12:50 ET .EOF
Good evening, everyone.
I'm an eye surgeon from Bowling Green, Kentucky.
My wife, Kelly, and I have been married for nearly 25 years, and I spend my days defending the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
I think there's nothing more important than understanding that the Constitution restrains government, not the people.
Thank you.
I'm Mike Huckabee.
I'm delighted to be on this stage with some remarkable fellow Republicans.
I know that there are some in the Wall-Street-to-Washington axis of power who speak of all of us contemptuously.
But I'm here to say that I think we are, in fact, the A team.
We have some remarkable people, and, in fact, not only are we the A team; we even have our own Mr. T, who doesn't mind saying about others, "you're a fool."
And I'm delighted to be here with all of these guys, and would put any of them in an administration that I led.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
My name is Marco Rubio.
I'm from Florida.
My wife Jeanette and I are the proud -- we've been married 17 years, and we're the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening.
I'm honored to be here at the Reagan Library, at a place that honors the legacy of a man who inspired not just my interest in public service, but also our love for country.
And I'm also aware that California has a drought, and so that's why I made sure I brought my own water.
I'm Ted Cruz.
I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom.
I'm a husband to my best friend, Heidi, who's here tonight.
I'm a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine.
If you're fed up with Washington, if you're looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, I'm the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back.
Hi, I'm Ben Carson, and I'm a retired pediatric neurosurgeon.
I'm here with my wife, Candy, of 40 years, and two of my sons, and their wives.
I stress the pediatric part of my career because the reason that I've gotten involved in this race is because I'm very concerned about the future of our children, and the direction of our country is one that does not portend well, unless we, the people, intervene and retake our rightful place at the pinnacle.
And I just want to be -- make it clear that I'm grateful to be here with all of you again, and welcome the addition of Carly Fiorina, as well.
I'm Donald Trump.
I wrote "The Art of the Deal".
We build our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life altogether.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead.
I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won.
I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country.
Thank you.
Good evening, I'm Scott Walker, and tonight, I want to thank and Mrs. Reagan, and the Reagan Library for hosting us.
You see, in my lifetime, the greatest president was a governor from California.
Ronald Reagan knew how to go big, and go bold.
He understood the essence of moving this country forward, and that's what I did when I took on the status quo in my state, and the Washington based special interest.
Now, more than ever, America needs a leader who will go big and bold again.
Someone who's been tested.
I'm ready to be that leader.
Thank you.
Good evening.
My story, from secretary to CEO, is only possible in this nation, and proves that everyone of us has potential.
My husband, Frank, of 30 years, started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop.
We have come to a pivotal point in our nation's history where this nation's possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government grown so big, so powerful, so inept, so corrupt, and a political class that refuses to do anything about it.
I am prepared to lead the resurgence of this great nation.
Hello, I'm John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio.
Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls.
Thanks for watching tonight.
By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much -- are pretty much the same.
Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.
Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him.
The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.
Hi, my name is Chris Christie, and I'd like to you take the camera off me and put it on the audience because I'd like to ask all of you, how many of you, raise your hand, believe that in today's Barak Obama America your children will have a better life than you've had?
You see?
That's why I'm running for President.
because leadership is not about me, it's about our country.
And, what we talk about tonight, it's not about us, it's about the people in the audience tonight, because in seven short years this president has stripped away their trust, and their faith, and their belief that the next generation will have a better life.
He's stolen that from us, and when I'm president, I'm going to take it back.
You know, I think Mr. Trump is a wonderful entertainer.
He's been terrific at that business.
I also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability, judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure.
All of us will be revealed over time and under pressure.
I look forward to a long race.
That's not for me to answer; it is for the voters of this country to answer, and I have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the United States of America.
Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage.
He's number 11, he's got 1 percent in the polls, and how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway.
As far as temperament -- and we all know that -- as far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament.
I built a phenomenal business with incredible, iconic assets, one of the really truly great real-estate businesses.
And I may be an entertainer, because I've had tremendous success with number-one bestsellers all over the place, with "The Apprentice" and everything else I've done.
But I will tell you this: What I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman, and that's the kind of mindset this country needs to bring it back, because we owe $19 trillion right now, $19 trillion, and you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back.
And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm.
But we will be respected outside of this country.
We are not respected now.
I kind of have to laugh when I think of, "Mmm, sounds like a non sequitur."
He was asked whether or not he would be capable and it would be in good hands to be in charge of the nuclear weapons, and all of a sudden, there's a sideways attack at me.
I think that really goes to really the judgment.
Do we want someone with that kind of character, that kind of careless language to be negotiating with Putin?
Do we want someone like that to be negotiating with Iran?
I think really there's a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr. Trump, but I am worried.
I'm very concerned about him -- having him in charge of the nuclear weapons, because I think his response, his -- his visceral response to attack people on their appearance -- short, tall, fat, ugly -- my goodness, that happened in junior high.
Are we not way above that?
Would we not all be worried to have someone like that in charge of the nuclear arsenal?
I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there's plenty of subject matter right there.
That I can tell you.
But Jake, Jake, Jake, Jake...
But Jake, this -- this is -- this...
I think the voters will make that determination.
And that requires a steadiness.
That requires an understanding of how the world works.
That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world.
You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result.
You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills.
WALKER Jake, this is -- this is -- this is...
But I have to say...
WALKER This is actually what's wrong -- this is what's wrong with this debate.
We're not talking about real issues.
And Mr. Trump, we don't need an apprentice in the White House.
We don't need an apprentice in the White House.
We have one right now.
He told us all the things we wanted to hear back in 2008.
We don't know who you are or where you're going.
We need someone who can actually get the job done.
And you talked about business.
Well, in Wisconsin...
WALKER You -- you -- let me finish...
Excuse me.
WALKER No, no...
WALKER You're using the talking...
I would do so much better than that.
WALKER Mr. Trump, you're using the talking points of the Democrats...
No.
WALKER ... and as we all know...
I'm using facts.
WALKER ... that failed three times in four and a half years when I got elected, because it is working.
We balanced a budget.
You want to talk about balanced budgets?
You took four major projects into bankruptcy over and over and over again.
You can't take America into bankruptcy.
That's what's wrong with the politicians in Washington right now.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.
into bankruptcy.
That's what's wrong with politicians in Washington right now.
They think we can take a country into bankruptcy.
Every major business leader, has used the -- I never went bank bankrupt, by the way, as you know, everybody knows.
But -- hundreds of companies, hundreds of deals, I used the law four times and made a tremendous thing.
I'm in business.
I did a very good job.
But I will say this, and people are very, very impressed with what I've done, the business people.
But when the folks of Iowa found out the true facts of the job that you've done in Wisconsin, all of a sudden you, tubed (ph), he was No.
1 and now he's No.
6 or seven in the polls.
Jake, yeah, absolutely, I'll take this on, because this is an issue that's important in this race.
Just because he says it doesn't make it true.
The facts are the facts.
And it's about time people in America stand up and take note of this.
If you want someone that can actually take on the special interest of Washington, which you yourself said you were part of, using the system, we need somebody that will stand up and fight for average Americans to put them back in charge of their government.
I'm the one who is taking that on.
I'll do that as your next president.
Jake, Jake.
Listen, you know, I -- if I were sitting at home and watch thing back and forth, I would be inclined to turn it off.
I mean, people at home want to know across this country, they want to know what we're going to do to fix this place, how we'll balance a budget, how we're going to create more economic growth, how we'll pay down the debt.
What we're going to do to strengthen the military.
So, we just spent 10 minutes here...
But -- but wait a minute.
It's a lot of ad hogshead.
Now, I know that it may be buzzing out there, but I think it's important we get to the issues, because that's what people want, and they don't want all this fighting.
Well, I know Ben wasn't talking about me, I'm sure he was talking about one of the other guys, not me.
As far as being an outsider is concerned -- as far as being an outsider is concerned, let me tell you this, Jake, I'm a Republican in New Jersey.
I wake up every morning as an outsider.
I wake up every morning with a Democratic legislature who trying to beat my head in and fight me because I'm trying to bring conservative change to a state that needed it desperately.
And so, everyone can talk us here about their credentials.
But the bottom line is, every morning I get up, I veto 400 bills from a crazy liberal Democratic legislature, not one of them has been overridden.
I've vetoed more tax increases than any governor in American history, according to Americans for Tax Reform.
What folks want in this country is somebody to go down there and get the job done.
And that's exactly what I'll do.
So, I know this much, that what the American people want to hire right now is somebody who believes in them.
And believes that they are the ones who can fix our country.
I will be the vessel through which they can fix this country, but it's not about me.
It's about all of you.
And getting this government off your back and out of your way, and letting you succeed.
I know Ben wasn't talking about me.
Be honest, Ben, be honest.
Typically, politicians do things that are politically expedient.
And they are looking for whatever their particular goal is.
That is not the reason that I have gotten into this thing.
I'm extraordinary concerned about the direction of this country, the divisiveness that is going on, fiscal irresponsibility, the failure to take a leadership position in the world.
All of those things will lead to a situation where the next generation will not have a chance that we've had now.
So I don't -- I don't want to really get into describing who's a politician and who's not a politician, but I think the people have kind of made that decision for themselves already, and will continue to do so as time goes on.
See, Jake, it wasn't me.
Jake, I'll tell you -- I'll tell you why people are supporting outsiders.
It's because you know what happens if someone's been in the system their whole life, they don't know how broken the system is.
A fish swims in water, it doesn't know it's water.
It's not that politicians are bad people, it's that they've been in that system forever.
The truth is 75 percent of the American people think the government is corrupt; 82 percent of the American people think these problems that have festered for 50 years in some cases, 25 years in other cases.
The border's been insecure for 25 years; 307,000 veterans have died waiting for health care.
These things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the status quo.
You know what a leader does?
They challenge the status quo, they solve problems that have festered for a long time and they produce results.
That is what my whole life has been about.
People know this is about far more than replacing a D with an R --
-- this is about changing the system.
No.
Absolutely not.
People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years.
We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating.
People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C.
The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something -- that was generous and gave me money -- was Donald Trump.
He wanted casino gambling in Florida --
I didn't --
Yes you did.
Totally false.
You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed to --
I would have gotten it.
-- casino gambling before --
I promise I would have gotten it.
during and after.
And that's not -- I'm not going to be bought by anybody.
I promise if I wanted it, I would have gotten it.
No way.
Believe me.
I know my people.
Not even possible.
I know my people.
No.
I just will tell you that, you know, Jeb made the statement.
I'm not only referring to him.
I -- a lot of money was raised by a lot of different people that are standing up here.
And the donors, the special interests, the lobbyists have very strong power over these people.
I'm spending all of my money, I'm not spending -- I'm not getting any -- I turned down -- I turn down so much, I could have right now from special interests and donors, I could have double and triple what he's got.
I've turned it down.
I turned down last week $5 million from somebody.
So I will tell you I understand the game, I've been on the other side all of my life.
And they have a lot of control over our politicians.
And I don't say that favorably, and I'm not sure if there's another system, but I say this.
I am not accepting any money from anybody.
Nobody has control of me other than the people of this country.
I'm going to do the right thing.
That's true.
That's true.
-- because you gave her money.
Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton --
I was -- excuse me, Jeb.
-- it doesn't work for anybody on this -- on stage.
I was a businessman, I got along with Clinton, I got along with everybody.
That was my job, to get along with people.
But the simple fact is --
I didn't want to -- excuse me.
One second.
No.
The simple fact is, Donald, you could not take --
OK, more energy tonight.
I like that.
Look --
I was asked the question.
I didn't want -- it was my obligation as a businessman to my family, to my company, to my employees, to get along with all politicians.
I get along with all of them, and I did a damn good job in doing it.
Go ahead.
So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton --
Got along with everybody.
When he -- and he -- when he asked -- when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no.
Wrong.
We said no.
And that's the simple fact.
The simple fact is --
Don't make things up.
Jeb, don't make things up.
Come on.
Don't cut me off.
Don't make things up.
Jake, can I say something about that?
You know, when I entered this race, all the political pundits said it's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money.
And there's no way that you can raise what you need in order to compete successfully.
I in no way am willing to get in the bed with special interest group or lick the boots of billionaires.
I have said to the people if they want me to do this, please get involved.
And we now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in.
But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people.
And they are really in charge.
So, number one, they have to respect you.
He has absolutely no respect for President Obama.
Zero.
Syria's a mess.
You look at what's going on with ISIS in there, now think of this: we're fighting ISIS.
ISIS wants to fight Syria.
Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria?
Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants.
I would talk to him.
I would get along with him.
I believe -- and I may be wrong, in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with.
We don't get along with China.
We don't get along with the heads of Mexico.
We don't get along with anybody, and yet, at the same time, they rip us left and right.
They take advantage of us economically and every other way.
We get along with nobody.
I will get along -- I think -- with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable -- stable world.
I believe that I will get along -- we will do -- between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems, we won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations.
TAPPER: Senator Rubio, you've taken a very different approach to the -- the question of Russia.
You've called Vladimir Putin a, quote, "gangster."
Why would President Rubio's approach be more effective than President Trump's?
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward.
He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force.
He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union -- the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, and now he's trying to reverse that.
He's trying to destroy NATO.
And this is what this is a part of.
He is exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East.
Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly -- fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad.
He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt.
America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia.
Begin to rely on us."
What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it.
That is what is happening in the Middle East.
That's what's happening with Russia, and...
Having...
Having met Vladimir Putin, if I may...
Having met Vladimir Putin, I wouldn't talk to him at all.
We've talked way too much to him.
What I would do, immediately, is begin rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, I would begin rebuilding the missile defense program in Poland, I would conduct regular, aggressive military exercises in the Baltic states.
I'd probably send a few thousand more troops into Germany.
Vladimir Putin would get the message.
By the way, the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know General Suleimani's name is because Russia is in Syria right now, because the head of the Quds force traveled to Russia and talked Vladimir Putin into aligning themselves with Iran and Syria to prop up Bashar al- Assad.
Russia is a bad actor, but Vladimir Putin is someone we should not talk to, because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the other side, and we have all of that within our control.
We could rebuild the Sixth Fleet.
I will.
We haven't.
We could rebuild the missile defense program.
We haven't.
I will.
We could also, to Senator Rubio's point, give the Egyptians what they've asked for, which is intelligence.
We could give the Jordanians what they've asked for...
...bombs and materiel.
We have not supplied it...
...I will.
We could arm the Kurds.
They've been asking us for three years.
All of this is within our control.
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran.
We've seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind.
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism.
This deal abandons four American hostages in Iran, and this deal will only accelerate Iran's acquiring nuclear weapons.
You'd better believe it.
If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
Well, let's be clear when it comes to experience.
What President Obama wants to do is he's run to the United Nations, and he wants to use the United Nations to bind the United States, and take away our sovereignty.
Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v. Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty.
And, so, if there's anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, they're giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that.
...Yeah, well...
Well, let me just say this.
First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it.
But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies.
If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies.
Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months.
I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years.
I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign -- in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.
Now, here's the -- if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on.
If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on.
And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table.
We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy.
...Slow (ph) and steady, (inaudible) chicken...
I think this goes back to essentially what we've been saying for the last two or three questions.
Carly Fiorina also said we're not going to talk with Putin.
Well, think if Reagan had said that during the Cold War?
We continued to talk with the Russians throughout the Cold War which is much more significant that where we are now.
Should we continue to talk with Iran?
Yes.
Should we cut up the agreement immediately?
That's absurd.
Wouldn't you want to know if they complied?
Now, I'm going to vote against the agreement because I don't think there's significant leverage, but it doesn't mean that I would immediately not look at the agreement, and cut it up without looking to see if whether or not Iran has complied.
The same goes with China.
I don't think we need to be rash, I don't think we need to be reckless, and I think need to leave lines of communication open.
Often we talk about whether we should be engaged in the world, or disengaged in the world, and I think this is an example of some who want to isolate us, actually, and not be engaged.
We do need to be engaged with Russia.
It doesn't mean we give them a free pass, or China a free pass, but, to be engaged, to continue to talk.
We did throughout the Cold War, and it would be a big mistake not to do it here.
Two parts to that, one on China, one back for a second on Iran.
When it comes to China, why would we be giving an official state visit to a country that's been involved in a massive cyber attack against the United States?
That's not just a visit, that's a 21 gun salute on the South Lawn of the White House.
It just doesn't make any sense.
If we're ever going to send a message to them, wouldn't this be the time, when they've issued this, sort of, massive attack against us?
And, Jake, for the question, I was one of the first ones to call for terminating the bad deal with Iran on day one.
The President came after me and said I need to bone up.
You know, the President who called ISIS the JV squad said I needed to bone up.
The reality is it's a bad deal on day one, and it's a bad deal because this president has allowed Iran to go closer, and closer.
I'd love to play cards with this guy because Barack Obama folds on everything with Iran.
We need a leader who's going to stand up, and actually (INAUDIBLE)...
...Jake...
...Jake...
No, I don't think so, but we need to be strong against China.
We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China.
There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed.
There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner.
That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that.
As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement.
A strategy would be how do we confront Iran?
And, the first thing that we need to do is to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this administration.
And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back.
If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of.
...Jake, (INAUDIBLE)...
I would certainly love to get in on this, because I think the single...
I've been patiently waiting, and I'm going to just say this about Iran.
This threatens Israel immediately, this threatens the entire Middle East, but it threatens the United States of America.
And we can't treat a nuclear Iranian government as if it is just some government that would like to have power.
This is a government for 36 years has killed Americans, they kidnapped Americans, they have maimed Americans.
They have sponsored terrorist groups, Hamas and Hezbollah, and they threaten the very essence of Western civilization.
To give them this agreement, that the president treats like the Magna Carta, but Iranians treat it like it's toilet paper, and we must, simply, make it very clear that the next president, one of us on this stage, will absolutely not honor that agreement, and will destroy it and will be tough with Iran, because otherwise, we put every person in this world in a very dangerous place.
I wouldn't have drawn the line, but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across.
They do bear some responsibility, but I think he probably didn't do it, not for that reason.
Somehow, he just doesn't have courage.
There is something missing from our president.
Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force, done something to Assad -- if he had gone in with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world.
They had a responsibility, absolutely.
I think we have three of them here...
I think they had a responsibility, yes.
Let me tell you -- I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said.
He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick.
Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks.
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win.
And we're not going to authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win.
And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that.
Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well.
I'd like to actually...
... respond.
I think I'm the first senator.
The No.
1 test for use of military force should be the vital national security interest of the United States.
The reason why I opposed President Obama bombing Syria, is because he couldn't answer the question what do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-Nusra, like Al Qaida, like ISIS?
Now, I also want to respond to several folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal, see if the Iranians will comply.
Anyone who is paying attention to what Khamenei says knows that they will not comply.
There is a reason Khamenei refers to Israel as the little Satan, and America as the great Satan.
In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting, death to America.
I'm reminded of a great editorial cartoon.
It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, "Death to all Americans," and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, "Can we meet ya half way?"
We need a commander-in-chief who will stand up and protect this country.
And I'll tell you, I can't wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you are voting for the Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon and if you elect me as president, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants death to America ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon.
No, no, no.
I want to -- I want to -- I want to say something about what the senator just said.
And then it'll be my turn.
No one is -- no -- let me -- let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us.
President Bush did it in the Gulf War.
We work better when we are unified.
Secondly, nobody's trusting Iran.
They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.
If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway.
If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on.
And let me make it clear -- let me make it clear...
... if we think -- if we think they're getting close to a -- to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.
Jake, Jake...
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone.
That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.
Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and I've listened to several folks saying, "Well, gosh, if they cheat, we'll act."
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves.
That makes no sense whatsoever.
And let me know -- President Obama is violating federal law...
... by not handing over the side deals, and we ought to see the United States Congress...
... stand up together and say, "Hand over this treaty, and protect this country."
Jake?
Jake?
No, no.
Let me finish this one thought, Jake.
I haven't gotten that much time, so I'm going to take just what little I can here.
You're telling me that you cannot make an accommodation for an elected Democrat county clerk from Rowan County, Kentucky?
What else is it other than the criminalization of her faith and the exaltation of the faith of everyone else who might be a Fort Hood shooter or a detainee at Gitmo?
I don't think -- you're not stating my views right.
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith.
Religious conscience is -- is -- is a first freedom.
It's -- it's a powerful part of our -- of our Bill of Rights.
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in -- in -- in this country -- I'm a -- I was opposed to the decision, but we -- you can't just say, "well, they -- gays can't get married now."
But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in weddings, or bakers.
A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way.
This should be solved at the local level...
And so we do agree, Mike.
I was --
She is, and so if she, based on conscience, can't sign that -- that marriage license, then there should be someone in her office to be able to do it, and if the law needs to be changed in the state of Kentucky, which is what she's advocating, it should be changed.
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood.
I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.
I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood.
But when (ph) it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.
When we shut the government down -- if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes.
The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up -- open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?"
So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood.
I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done.
Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done.
There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic.
But I would not be for shutting the government down...
...because I don't think it's going to work out.
Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, I'm proud to stand for life.
These Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying.
I would encourage every American to watch the videos.
See -- seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, "are these my values?"
Absolutely we shouldn't be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and I'll tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, "we'll give in because Obama threatens a veto."
You know, Obama's committed to his principles.
His liberal principles, he will fight for them.
He says...
I will veto any budget that doesn't fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender.
We need to stop surrendering and start standing...
...for our principles.
...Dana, in a way that maximizes their value for sale for profit.
It is disgusting, and the American people need to hear it...
...we shouldn't be fighting with each other.
She's the real opponent, she's the real problem.
I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
I'll tell you what I'd be willing to fight for.
Why will (ph) we put tax reform on the president's desk, so we can simplify this tax system?
No, no, it's really important, Dana.
We got to talk about what we would be willing to shut down for.
Why don't we put tax reform on this president's desk, and make him veto it if that's what he wants to do?
Why haven't we repealed and replaced Obamacare?
Make him veto if that's what he wants to do.
And why don't we do the same thing with Planned Parenthood?
We elected a Republican Congress to do this.
And they should be doing it, and they're not.
And they're giving the president a pass.
Dana, I'd like to...
I put it in the list, Dana.
We should be doing these things and forcing the president to take action.
Let's force him to do what he says he's going to do.
Now I don't know whether he'll do it or not, but let's force him to do it.
Dana, I would like to link these two issues, both of which are incredibly important, Iran and Planned Parenthood.
One has something to do with the defense of the security of this nation.
The other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation.
You have not heard a plan about Iran from any politician up here, here is my plan.
On day one in the Oval Office, I will make two phone calls, the first to my good friend to Bibi Netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state of Israel.
The second, to the supreme leader, to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime, anywhere inspections by our people, not his, we, the United States of America, will make it as difficult as possible and move money around the global financial system.
We can do that, we don't need anyone's cooperation to do it.
And every ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the United States in America is back in the leadership business, which is how we must stand with our allies.
This is about the character of our nation, and if we will not stand up in and force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us.
Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage.
I got to act on my core beliefs.
It's part of who I am.
Life is a gift from God.
And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life.
And so I defunded Planned Parenthood.
We created a climate where parental notification took place.
We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys.
We were totally focused on this.
And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C.
So here is a solution to this.
Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the "Reagan Rule."
It was passed in 1988.
And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.
He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in.
When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X.
And this deal will be finished.
Jeb, just...
I think it will haunt him.
I think it's a terrible.
I think it's going to haunt him absolutely.
He came back later and he said he misspoke.
There was no question because I heard when he said the statement.
I was watching and he said the statement.
And I said, wow, I can't believe it.
I will take care of women.
I respect women.
I will take care of women.
One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation.
We're talking about Iran.
The agreement was terrible.
It was incompetent.
I've never seen anything like it.
One of the worst contracts of any kind I've ever seen.
And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons and somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places.
But certainly North Korea.
And Ted and I have spoken.
We've -- a lot of us have spoken.
We're talking about Iran.
They are bad actors, bad things are going to happen.
But in the meantime, you have somebody right now in North Korea who has got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I'm ready to use them.
And we don't even mention it.
There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country.
I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government.
Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.
That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people.
And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.
Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor.
So why didn't you say it?
Why didn't you say it?
We improved -- we improved --
I know, but why did you say it?
I heard it myself.
Why did you say it?
-- we increased child support -- we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent.
You said you're going to cut funding for women's health.
You said it.
I have a proven record.
I have a proven record.
You said it.
Jake, just one more moment.
This is -- there's something bigger to this.
Now, I -- like so many other governors here, I defunded Planned Parenthood four-and-a-half years ago, in a Blue State.
But it's bigger than that.
We did that in a Blue State, we took the money and put it into women's health, so we did exactly what we're talking about here.
But I think the bigger issue here is we should be able to do this nationally, and this is precisely why so many Republicans are upset with Washington.
They see the House and they see the Senate and they say why can't we pass this.
Why can't we defund Planned -- put it in a spending bill.
Forget about the 60-vote rule, there's no reason -- and the Constitution doesn't call for 60 votes.
Pass it with 51 votes, put it on the desk of the president --
-- and go forward and actually make a point.
This is why --
-- people are upset with Washington.
You know, it's interesting to me, Mr. Trump said that he heard Mr. Bush very clearly and what Mr. Bush said.
I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said.
I think she's got a beautiful face, and I think she's a beautiful woman.
Correct.
First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works.
So important, and it's a big part of it.
Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside, and I think Chris knows that, maybe as well as anybody.
They go, if I get elected, first day they're gone.
Gangs all over the place.
Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you look.
We have a country based on laws.
I will make sure that those laws are adhered to.
These are illegal immigrants.
I don't think you'd even be asking this question if I didn't run because when I ran, and I brought this up, my opening remarks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time.
And, then they found out with the killing of Katie, from San Francisco, and so many other crimes, they found out that I was right.
And, most people, many people, apologized to me.
I don't think you'd even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren't for me.
So, we have a country of laws, they're going to go out, and they'll come back if they deserve to come back.
If they've had a bad record, if they've been arrested, if they've been in jail, they're never coming back.
We're going to have a country again.
Right now, we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it, and it can be done with proper management, and it can be done with heart.
First of, Jake, I don't yield to anybody on how to enforce the law.
I'm the only person on this stage who spent seven years as a United States Attorney after September 11th, and I know how to do this.
The fact is though that for 15,000 people a day to be deported every day for two years is an undertaking that almost none of us could accomplish given the current levels of funding, and the current number of law enforcement officers.
Here's what we need to do, and I think this is where Donald is absolutely right.
What we need to do is to secure our border, and we need to do it with more than just a wall.
We need to use electronics, we need to use drones, we need to use FBI, DEA, and ATF, and yes, we need to take the fingerprint of every person who comes into this country on a visa, and when they overstay their visa, we need to tap them on the shoulder, and say, "You have overstayed your welcome, you're taking advantage of the American people.
It's time for you to go."
If we had that kind of system in place, we wouldn't have the 11 million people we have now.
I was down in Arizona a few weeks ago at the border.
Now, what we need to do is look at something that actually works.
Yuma County, Arizona.
They put in a double fence with a road so that there was quick access by the enforcement people.
If we don't seal the border, the rest of this stuff clearly doesn't matter.
It's kind of ridiculous all the other things we talk about.
We have the ability to do it, we don't have the will to do it.
There was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence, and to repair it, they put a few strands of barb wire across.
Well, the photographers who were there with us, they wanted to photograph us from the side of the Mexicans, and they went through there, and they were not physically fit people, and they took their cameras and things with them, and shot us from the other side.
That's how easy it is to get across.
And, the drugs, I mean, it goes on, and on, and on.
ICE tells them to release these people, 67,000 criminals released...
...on to our property, it's ridiculous.
Well, I have also said, if anybody knows how to do that, that I would be willing to listen.
And, if they can, you know, specify exactly how that's going to be done, and what the cost, and it sounds reasonable, then I think it's worth discussing...
...(INAUDIBLE)...
He did, he did.
You're proud of your family, just as I am.
Correct.
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald.
Well, I have to tell you, I hear phenomenal things.
I hear your wife is a lovely woman...
She is.
She's fantastic.
I don't know her, and this is a total mischaracterization...
She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here...
Good.
And why don't you apologize to her right now.
No, I won't do that, because I've said nothing wrong.
Yeah.
But I do hear she's a lovely woman.
So, here's the deal.
My wife is a Mexican-American.
She's an American by choice.
She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border.
But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique.
We're at a crossroads right now.
Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us?
Or the Donald Trump approach?
The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end.
I...
Jeb said...
I'm on the Reagan side of this.
... that they come into our country as an act of love.
With all of the problems we that we have, in so many instances -- we have wonderful people coming in.
But with all of the problems -- this is not an act of love.
He's weak on immigration -- by the way, in favor of Common Core, which is also a disaster, but weak on immigration.
He doesn't get my vote.
Dana, with all being said to Mr. Trump...
Immigration did not come up in 2016 because Mr. Trump brought it up.
We talked about it in 2012, we talked about it in 2008.
We talked about it in 2004.
Not with this intensity.
We have been talking about it for 25 years.
This is why people are tired of politicians.
As I said, we are spending $200 billion -- we are spending $200 billion a year on maintaining what we have.
We will move them out.
The great ones will come back, the good ones will come back.
They'll be expedited, they'll be back, they'll come back legally.
We'll have a country -- they'll come back, legally.
Well, I think it's wonderful and all, but I did it a little bit half-heartedly, but I do mean it to a large extent.
We have a country, where, to assimilate, you have to speak English.
And I think that where he was, and the way it came out didn't sound right to me.
We have to have assimilation -- to have a country, we have to have assimilation.
I'm not the first one to say this, Dana.
We've had many people over the years, for many, many years, saying the same thing.
This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish.
Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English.
Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values.
This is a reporter, not a high school kid.
Ms. Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it.
It's important.
I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well.
It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a -- escaping Cuba.
And he lived with us, growing up.
And my grandfather loved America.
He understood what was so special about this country.
He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're here this evening.
My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve.
But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in.
And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish.
And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why -- because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility.
And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me.
Not from a translator at Univision.
Not exactly what I said.
Well, what I said, after we seal the borders, after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all the goodies so we don't have people coming in here, including employment, that people who had a pristine record, we should consider allowing them to become guest workers, primarily in the agricultural sphere, because that's the place where Americans don't seem to want to work.
That's what I said.
And they have a six-month period to do that.
If they don't do it within that time period, then they become illegal, and as illegals, they will be treated as such.
Well, Jake, you know, I'm -- I'm very glad that Donald Trump's being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration.
I think that's very important.
I like and respect Ben Carson.
I'll let him talk about his own plans.
But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates?
And this is an issue on which there are stark differences.
In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight.
You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders?
Well, I've been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system...
Can I -- can I -- can I just...
Can I correct...
OK.
Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper.
Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with.
My family's immigrants.
My neighbors are all immigrants.
My in-laws are all immigrants.
So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three.
Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works.
And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.
And we must deal with all three of these problems.
We cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation.
I learned that.
We tried it that way.
Here's the way forward: First, we must -- we must secure our border, the physical border, with -- with a wall, absolutely.
But we also need to have an entry/exit tracking system.
We also need a mandatory e-verify system.
After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.
And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people...
... will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal.
If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay.
My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons.
Number one, you know, I've talked to farmers, and they said they cannot hire Americans to do the kind of job that I'm talking about.
And the second reason is because the individuals who register as guest workers, they don't get to vote, they are not American citizens, and they don't get the rights and privileges of American citizens.
So that's key.
But the other thing that I want to bring up is, I mentioned something earlier.
I think it was just sort of glossed over.
I talked about the success in Yuma County, I mean, incredible success, and the Department of Justice said, "No, we don't want to do that.
That's too successful."
We don't have to keep reinventing the wheel.
All we have to do is look at things that work.
All we have to do is use a little common sense.
Well, first of all, the -- the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars -- not television scholars, but legal scholars -- that it is wrong.
It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that.
A woman gets pregnant.
She's nine months, she walks across the border, she has the baby in the United States, and we take care of the baby for 85 years.
I don't think so.
We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it.
And people -- and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico.
The 14th Amendment, it reads properly, you can go and -- it's probably going to be have to be check -- go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court, but there are a lot of great legal scholars that say that is not correct.
And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no -- we're the only -- one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years?
I don't think so.
First let me say, We have just spent a good bit of time discussing, as Republicans, how to solve this problem.
I would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic question.
Why have Democrats not solved this problem?
President Obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration problem.
He entered Washington with majorities in the House and the Senate.
He could have chosen to do anything to solve this pro -- this problem.
Instead, he chose to do nothing.
Why?
because the Democrats don't want this issue solved.
...the truth is, you can't just wave your hands and say "the 14th Amendment is gonna go away."
It will take an extremely arduous vote in Congress, followed by two-thirds of the states, and if that doesn't work to amend the Constitution, then it is a long, arduous process in court.
And meanwhile, what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years.
With all due respect, Mr. Trump, we've been talking about illegal immigration for 25 years.
San Francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989.
There are 300 of them.
And meanwhile, what has happened?
Nothing.
The border remains insecure.
The legal immigration system remains broken.
Look, we know what it takes to secure a border.
We've heard a lot of great ideas here.
Money, manpower, technology...
...mostly, apparently, leadership...
...the kind of leadership that understands how to get results.
I agree 100 percent, by the way, with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem, for the obvious reasons, but they do not.
But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can't be done.
I've seen both sides, but some of the greatest scholars agree with me, without having to go through Congress.
If you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem.
TAPPER: Thank you, Mr. Trump.
Senator Paul...
But you -- you would stipulate, Mr. Trump, but not everyone agrees with you.
That's true, sure.
OK.
Well, I hate to say it, but Donald Trump has a bit of a point here.
The case that was decided around 1900 was, people had a green card, were here legally, and they said that their children were citizens.
There's never been a direct Supreme Court case on people who were here illegally, whether or not their kids are citizens.
So it hasn't really been completely adjudicated.
The 14th Amendment says that "those who are here and under the jurisdiction."
The original author of the -- of the 14th Amendment said on the Senate floor that this was applying to slaves, and did not specifically apply to others.
I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time, the worst technology recession in 25 years.
The NASDAQ stock index fell 80 percent.
It took 15 years for the stock index to recover.
We had very strong competitors who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process.
We must lead in this nation again, and some tough calls are going to be required.
But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the day it happened.
When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies.
I made a few.
Steve Jobs told me that when he called me the day I was fired to say, hey, been there, done that twice.
It's also true that the man that led my firing, Tom Perkins, just took --
-- out a full-page ad in the New York Times to say he was wrong, I was right.
I was a terrific CEO, the board was dysfunctional.
And he thinks I will make a magnificent president of the United States.
-- let me -- well, let me just explain.
The head of the Yale Business School, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, wrote a paper recently, one of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen, ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business.
The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster.
They still haven't recovered.
In fact, today, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25 or 30,000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe.
When Carly says the revenues went up, that's because she bought Compaq, it was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.
Now one other company before that was Lucent.
Carly was at Lucent before that.
And Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also.
So I only say this.
She can't run any of my companies.
That I can tell you.
You know, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard.
But honestly, Mr. Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this.
You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other people's money.
That is in fact precisely the way you ran your casinos.
You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses, using other people's money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once --
I never filed for bankruptcy.
-- not twice, four times, a record four times.
Why should we trust you to manage the finances --
I'll tell you why; it's very simple.
-- of this nation any differently than you managed the finances --
I'll tell you.
I was running --
-- of your casinos?
-- Carly, Carly --
-- I've made over $10 billion.
I had a casino company -- Caesars just filed for bankruptcy.
Chris will tell you -- it's not Chris' fault either -- but almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or filed for -- maybe I'll blame Chris.
Well --
But Atlantic City is a disaster --
Well, Mr. Trump --
Wait a minute, Carly.
Wait.
I let you speak.
Atlantic City is a disaster, and I did great in Atlantic City.
I knew when to get out.
My timing was great.
And I got a lot of credit for it.
Many of the great business people that you know -- and Carl Icon (ph) is going to work with me on making great deals for this country.
But whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time --
-- they have used the laws of the land, which is the --
Jake listen.
While I'm as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly's career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn't have a job, who can't fund his child's education, I've got to tell you the truth.
They could care less about your careers, they care about theirs.
Let's start talking about that on this stage and stop playing -- and stop playing the games.
Stop playing --
There's a --
John -- I'm not done yet, John.
A track record of leadership is not a game.
It is the issue in this election.
Stop -- and stop playing -- and Carly -- Carly, listen.
You can interrupt everybody else on this stage, you're not going to interrupt me, OK?
The fact is that we don't want to hear about your careers, back and forth and volleying back and forth about who did well and who did poorly.
You're both successful people.
Congratulations.
You know who's not successful?
The middle class in this country who's getting plowed over by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.
Let's start talking about those issues tonight and stop this childish back-and-forth between the two of you.
Jake --
Well, I thought we had been hearing quite a bit about Govenor Christie's record as governor, actually.
I think track records are very important.
I completely agree that what's at stake here is the future of this nation, and the future of every American.
But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership.
And let's talk about what leadership is.
It's not about braggadocio, it is about challenging the status quo, solving problems, producing results.
And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others.
Problems have festered in Washington for too long.
And the potential of this nation is being crushed.
OK, Jake.
I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.
But let's just stop for a second.
There's one person on this stage that does have a record.
I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.
We also cut taxes.
And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming.
I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.
We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor.
We've grown well over 300,000 jobs.
You see, I've done it in both places.
I'm the only one here that has done it in both places.
It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget.
It was legitimate.
It was real.
And we negotiated it.
A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what?
At the end of the day, America has got to work.
We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this -- with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody.
People have a chance to rise.
So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane.
It's not somebody that talks about it.
It's about the person who has done it.
And I've done it in...
... both places.
And I did it including people in the other party.
And that's how we were successful.
And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward.
Thank you.
I have a different idea.
I think we ought to get rid of all the taxes on people who produce.
Why should we penalize productivity?
And it's why I'm an unabashed supporter of the "fair tax," which would be a tax on our consumption, rather than a tax on our productivity.
In other words, you're not going to tax anybody for what they earn, whether it's worker whose working by the hour or whether it's a hedge fund manager.
If they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs, we need some jobs.
And I think the "fair tax" makes more sense.
Now, Jake, I've been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about I'm the only one who has done this, the only one who has done that, I've done great things.
We've all done great things or we wouldn't be on this stage.
But it occurs to me as we're sitting here in the Reagan Library that most of us would like to pay tribute to a guy who, when he got elected, didn't get elected telling everybody how great he was.
He got elected telling everybody how great the American people were.
And he empowered them to live their dreams, which is what I'd love to see us do by no longer penalizing the people who are out there working because they are taking a gut punch right now.
It's all about America.
You know, the people who say the guy who paid a billion dollars because he had 10, he has still got $9 billion left, that's not fair, we need to take more of his money.
That's called socialism.
That doesn't work so well.
What made America into a great nation was the fact that we said, that guy just put in $1 billion, let's create an environment that's even more conducive to his success so that next year he can put in $2 billion.
And that's the kind of thing that helps us to grow.
We can't grow by continuing to take a piece of pie, and dividing it, and redistributing it.
But, I'm also looking at what doctor -- at what Governor Huckabee talked about...
...You don't want me operating on you, I assure you.
The Fair Tax.
Looking at both of them, and evaluating them both, and I'm talking to the American people because one of the things we must recognize is that this country is of, for, and by the people.
And, it's really time that the government get out of the way, and let the people be the ones who decide how they want to run their country.
...Well, I'd like to respond, I'd like to respond...
Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well.
What I don't like is that if you make $200 million a year, you pay ten percent, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50,000 a year, and has to hire H&R Block to do the -- because it's so complicated.
One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years, so it's not a socialistic thing.
What I'd like to do, and I'll be putting in the plan in about two weeks, and I think people are going to like it, it's a major reduction in taxes.
It's a major reduction for the middle class.
The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now.
I know them all, but they'll pay more.
I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax, and I think it's unfair.
Well, I'm glad we're having a discussion about taxes because everybody laments that we lose jobs overseas, we have.
Our companies, and our jobs are being chased overseas by a 70,000 page tax code, so, that's why I've chosen to get rid of the whole thing, and have one single rate, 14 and a-half percent for everybody, business, and for corporate income, and personal income.
But, we also get rid of the payroll tax, so the working class would get a tax break as well.
So, I think a flat tax, eliminating the tax code, getting rid of all the loopholes, is the way to go, and it's the way we get America going again.
So, the best way to help people see their wages go up is to get them the education, the skill they need, to take on careers that pay more than minimum wage.
And, it's why we talk about it, it's all about jobs.
You want to help actually get jobs, it's why on that last question we were trying to jump in on taxes.
To me, it's not just about taxes, cutting taxes.
I've done it as much as anyone has.
I've cut income taxes, I've cut property taxes.
In fact, property taxes are lower today in my state than they were before we took office.
The real issues about jobs.
Ronald Reagan, our plan is based on the Ronald Reagan tax cuts of 1986.
That brought about one of the longest sustained periods of economic growth in American history.
All the things we should be talking about tonight are about how do we create jobs, helping people get the skills and the education qualifications they need to succeed.
That's the way you help people create jobs.
It's part of our large plan to reform the tax code, to cut taxes, to put in place an education system that gives people the skills and education that they need.
To put in place all the above energy policy, but you start on day one with repealing Obamacare.
I'm the only one on this stage that's actually got a plan, introduced an actual plan to repeal Obamacare on day one.
I'll send a bill up to Congress, and to make sure enact it...
...I'm going to sign an order that makes the Congress live by the same rules as everybody else.
TAPPER: ...Thank you, Governor...
...That will ensure they repeal Obamacare...
Well, first of all, let me say what I actually said about raising the minimum wage.
I was asked should it be raised, I said, probably, or possibly.
But, what I added, which I think is the most important thing, so, I said we need to get both sides of this issue to sit down, and talk about it.
Negotiate a reasonable minimum wage, and index that so that we never have to have this conversation again in the history of America.
I think we also have to have two minimum wages, a starter, and a sustaining because how are young people ever going to get a job if you have such a high minimum wage that it makes it impractical to hire them...
...Jake, Jake, Jake, I just want to address that issue because you said I didn't answer, and I did.
I said, to me, I think the real focus shouldn't be -- you know, Hillary Clinton talks about the minimum wage.
That's her answer to grow the economy.
The answer is to give people the skills and the education so they make far more than minimum wage.
I don't want to argue about how low things are going to be, I want to talk about how do we lift everyone up in America.
That's what Reagan talked about.
It wasn't how bad things were, it was how to make it better for everyone.
That's what we've done in Wisconsin, that's exactly what we'd do as...
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around.
Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.
All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat.
I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year.
And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent.
That hadn't happened for 96 years.
So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record.
But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it.
So...
You know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them.
You see, Governor Christie, people spend time talking about their track records, and Mr. Trump and I have every right to do the same.
And Mrs. Clinton has to defend her track record.
Her track record of lying about Benghazi, of lying about her e- mails, about lying about her servers.
She does not have a track record of accomplishment.
Like Mrs. Clinton, I, too, have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around the globe.
But unlike Mrs. Clinton, I know flying is an activity, not an accomplishment.
Mrs. Clinton -- if you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to name a accomplishment of Mrs. Clinton's.
Listen, you know, Hugh, it's an important point.
And the question is, who is going to prosecute Hillary Clinton?
The Obama White House seems to have in interest, the Justice Department seems to have no interest.
I think it's time to put a former federal prosecutor on the same stage as Hillary Clinton.
And I will prosecute her during those debates on that stage for the record we're talking about here.
The fact she had a private email server in her basement, using national security secrets running through it, could have been hacked by the Russians, the Chinese, or two 18-year-olds on a toot (ph) wanting to have some fun.
No one is answering that question from the Hillary Clinton campaign...
You know why?
Because she knows she's wrong, and she cannot look in the mirror at herself, and she cannot tell the American people the truth.
Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, a nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding.
And he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he has ever done.
Now unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice, but he did say that...
And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word.
But I would say just...
Well, I think it was.
And he actually said that.
Did you say that?
OK.
So I will say this, though, Hugh was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names.
I think he was reading them off a sheet.
And frankly I will have -- and I told him, I will have the finest team that anybody has put together and we will solve a lot of problems.
You know, right now they know a lot and look at what is happening.
The world is blowing up around us.
We will have great teams and great people.
I hope that answers your question.
I mean, you are in the Senate, but I hope that answers your question.
Yes, well, it does.
But it's in the following way, this is an important question.
I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today.
There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight.
The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military.
They hack into our computers.
They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world.
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to destroy and divide NATO.
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents.
And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home.
And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States.
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in.
And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe.
And today we are not doing that.
We are eviscerating our military.
And we have a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the prime minister of Israel.
No, I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
I mean...
I don't think he's suggesting that at all.
Well, that's why we have a debate.
I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make.
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day.
Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our president could very well confront a national security crisis.
You can't predict it.
Sometimes you cannot control it.
And it is the most -- the federal government does all kinds of things it's not supposed to be doing.
It regulates bathrooms.
It regulates schools that belong to local communities.
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe.
And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office.
Well, you have to understand, I am not sitting in the United States Senate with, by the way, the worst voting record there is today.
Number one.
I am not sitting in the United States Senate.
I'm a businessman doing business transactions.
Trust (ph) me, I get that.
OK.
I am doing business transactions.
I will know more about this -- and, as you said, that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview, it's a great interview, you said it, I didn't.
Well, now I did.
But...
Listen, just one second.
Just one second.
I never get to addressed, and...
I will know...
...and when I do, I'm gonna jump in.
...I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what's going in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess.
TAPPER: Senator Rubio, he did invoke your absentee record in the Senate.
Yeah.
He did.
Let me -- I'm proud to serve in the United States Senate.
You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me.
But I'm glad I won.
And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in the wrong direction.
And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change.
And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr. Trump.
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C. in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people.
You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it.
We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in -- in -- in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again.
We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with Iran.
And these -- if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves.
That's why I'm missing votes.
Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations.
That happened to be 41 and 43.
So just by definition, if you're -- and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they -- they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration.
Of course that's the case.
But I'm my own man.
I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world.
The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.
Rebuild our military so that our -- so that we don't deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that we're serious.
If we're going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible.
We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities.
We need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017, not in 1990 -- you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started.
The world is dramatically different.
And I believe that we need to restore America's presence and leadership in the world.
Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the -- the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president of the United States.
So I'll have a team that will be -- that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength.
We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of...
(inaudible)
The leadership of Ronald Reagan and my...
(inaudible) I'm -- and I'm meeting with people that are terrific people, but I have to say something because it's about judgment.
In fact, a delegation was sent to my office to see me because I was so vocal about it.
I'm a very militaristic person, but you have to know when to use the military.
I'm the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq.
Hugh, can I -- can I make a response to that?
Just excuse me, one second, Rand...
Can I make a response to that?
If you don't mind, Rand -- you know, you are on last -- you do have your 1 percent.
I would like -- and I think it's very important.
I think it's important, because it's about judgment.
It's about judgment.
I didn't want to go into Iraq, and I fought it, because what I said -- what I said...
May I make a response to that?
... was you're going to -- you're going to destabilize...
He's referred to me.
... the Middle East, and that's what happened.
He's referred to me...
So you -- the -- the first chance...
... in his remarks.
May I make a response?
Right after me, and then I'll -- I'll yield -- yield the floor.
What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating?
Absolutely.
Go ahead.
Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran?
It wasn't a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton.
That's what you believe.
I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying.
So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton...
If you think about it...
... is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran?
Your brother -- and your brother's administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster, those last three months, that Abraham Lincoln couldn't have been elected.
You know what?
As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure.
He kept us safe.
I don't know if you remember...
... Donald...
... you remember the -- the rumble?
You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it?
He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.
I don't know.
You feel safe right now?
I don't feel so safe.
May I respond?
: That's because of Barack -- that's because of Barack Obama.
That's -- that's my brother.
: That's because of Barack Obama.
We've had a president who called ISIS the J.V.
squad, Yemen a success story, Iran a place we can do business with.
It's not because of George W. Bush; it's because of Barack Obama...
(inaudible) on that point, though, whether it's -- whether we're talking about national security, foreign policy or we're talking about domestic policy, the key...
Or the collapse of the economy.
... the key issue here is talking about leadership.
Now, there's a lot of greater people up here, and you've heard a lot of great ideas out there.
But I would ask the American people, look at who's been tested.
When there were 100,000 protesters in my capital, I didn't back down, when they issued death threats against me and threats against my family, I didn't back down, when they tried to recall me, I didn't back down, and when they made me the -- one of their number-one targets last year, I didn't back down.
Give me the chance to be your president.
I won't back down...
... on any of these issues.
The remark was made that there hadn't been anyone else on the podium opposed to the Iraq War.
I've made my career as being an opponent of the Iraq War.
I was opposed to the Syria war.
I was opposed to arming people who are our enemies.
Iran is now stronger because Hussein is gone.
Hussein was the great bulwark and counterbalance to the Iranians.
So when we complain about the Iranians, you need to remember that the Iraq War made it worse.
Originally, Governor Bush was asked, was the Iraq War a mistake, and he said, "No.
We'd do it again."
We have to learn sometimes the interventions backfire.
The Iraq War backfired and did not help us.
We're still paying the repercussions of a bad decision.
We have make the decision now in Syria, should we topple Assad?
Many up here wanted to topple Assad, and it's like -- I said no, because if you do...
... ISIS will now be in charge of Syria...
... because of what President Obama's done by pulling back.
I want to go even deeper -- and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time it's ever been tried.
Syria's a perfect example of it.
The uprising in Syria was not started by the United States; it was started by the Syrian people.
And I warned at the time -- this was three and a half years ago -- I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists.
Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through, and that's exactly what happened.
That is why ISIS grew.
That is why ISIS then came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq.
What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement.
And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria...
... as you asked earlier today.
Jake, Jake...
I haven't had an opportunity to weigh in on foreign policy, and I just want to mention that when the war, when the issue occurred in 2003, I suggested to President Bush that he not go to war?
OK.
So I just want that on the record.
And, you know, a lot of people are very much against us getting involved right now with global jihadism.
And they refer back to our invasion of Iraq.
And they seem to think that that was what caused it.
What caused it was withdrawing from there and creating a vacuum which allowed this terrible situation to occur.
But it is very different from what is going on today.
We're talking about global jihadists who actually want to destroy us.
They are an existential threat to our nation.
And we have to be mature enough to recognize that our children will have no future if we put our heads in the sand.
We have to recognize we have two choices.
We either allow them the continue to progress and appear to be the winners, or we use every resource available to us to destroy...
... them first.
Well, Jake, I was named U.S. attorney by President Bush on September 10th, 2001.
And that next day my wife Mary Pat did what she did every day, she traveled through the World Trade Center and went to her office two blocks from the World Trade Center.
And after those planes hit, for five-and-a-half-hours after that, I couldn't reach her, didn't know whether she was dead or alive, and we had three children at the time, 8, 5 and 1.
And I had to confront what so many thousands of others in my region had to confront, the idea I might become a single parent, the idea that my life and my children's life might be changed forever.
We lost friends that day.
We went to the funerals.
And I will tell you that what those people wanted and what they deserved was for America to answer back against what had been done to them.
And I support what President Bush did at that time, going into Afghanistan, hunting al Qaeda and its leaders, getting its sanctuary out of place, and making it as difficult around the world for them to move people and money.
And then he went to prosecutors like us, and he said, never again.
Don't prosecute these people after the crime is committed.
Intervene before the crime happens.
I absolutely believe that what the president did at the time was right.
And I am proud to have been one of the people on the stage who was part of making sure that what Governor Bush said before was the truth.
America was safe for those seven years and Barack Obama has taken that safety away from us.
Well, recognize that, you know, President George W. Bush is a great friend of ours, and we spent many wonderful days at the White House.
I haven't been there in the last seven years.
I probably have to have a food-tester.
But at any rate, I didn't suggest that nothing be done.
What I suggested to President Bush is to be Kennedy-esque, in the sense that when the Russians got ahead of us in the space race, what we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody, business, industry, academia behind a national goal to put a man on the moon and bring him back safely.
I said, you can do the same kind of thing.
Declare that within five to 10 years we will become petroleum independent.
The moderate Arab states would have been so concerned about that, they would have turned over Osama bin Laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks.
There are smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things.
And sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right solution.
Let me say this, Jake, is that while that may have been a fine idea that Dr. Carson had, these people were out to kill us.
I stood in that region with my family, and every time a plane went overhead in the weeks after that, people's heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again.
You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point.
That could be handled later on.
What you need is a strong American leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation.
That's what I would do as commander-in-chief in this circumstance.
And that's what President George W. Bush did in 2001.
I have no argument with having a strong leader, and to be aggressive where aggression is needed.
But it is not needed in every circumstance.
There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things.
And I think that's what we have to start thinking about.
There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak.
It is because our Navy is so small.
It is because our Air Force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few years ago.
It's because our Marines Corps is not ready to be deployed.
There are a lot of problems that are going on, and we need to solve those problems, we need to build up our military...
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect.
It cannot -- they require -- what they need, is they need an operating space.
That's what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida.
It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space.
That's why they had to be drawn out of there.
That's why they had to be destroyed.
It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well.
We allowed them -- we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria.
They used it as an operating space to grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.
They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well.
You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.
Just today -- just today, there was a new report that 50 different intelligence analysts have said that what they sent up the ladder was doctored by senior officials, so that they could give some happy talk to the situation that we face.
I love the idea of a good intellectual capacity to deal with our enemies, but the fact is, if you don't have good intelligence that is reliable and honest, you won't have good intelligence and you cannot make good decisions.
The next president is primarily elected not just to know things, but to know what to do with the things that he knows.
And the most dangerous person in any room is the person who doesn't know what he doesn't know.
And the reason Barack Obama has been dangerous to this country and we better elect someone who had some executive experience, is because we cannot afford another eight years having a person in the office who doesn't know what he does not know.
We just spent -- we just spent the last 10 minutes...
To be clear, what I said the other day was that we need to lift the political restrictions that are already in play.
Barack Obama's administration has put political restrictions on the military personnel already in Iraq.
We need to lift those and then we need to listen to our military experts, not the political forces in the White House, but our military experts about how many more we sent in.
And we certainly shouldn't have a commander-in-chief who sends a message to our adversaries as to how far we're going to go, and how far we're willing to fight, so I'm not putting a troop number.
What I'm saying is lift the political restrictions.
When you do that, you empower our military personnel already there to work with the Kurd and the Sunni allies, to reclaim the territory taken by ISIS.
And to do so in a way that allows that ISIS doesn't go back in Syria, as we were just talking about here.
That is the fundamental problem going forward.
We have a president -- and Hillary Clinton was a part of this, by the way, who has made political decisions for our men and women in uniform.
I want the men and women at home to know, if I'm commander-in-chief, I will only send you into harm's way when our national security is at risk.
And if we do, you know you'll have our full support, the support of the American people, and you'll have a clear path for victory.
If you want boots on the ground, and you want them to be our sons and daughters, you got 14 other choices.
There will always be a Bush or Clinton for you, if you want to go back to war in Iraq.
But the thing is, the first war was a mistake.
And I'm not sending our sons and our daughters back to Iraq.
The war didn't work.
We can amplify those who live there.
The Kurds deserve to be armed and I'll arm them.
We can use our Air Force to amplify the forces there.
But the boots on the ground need to be the people who live there.
My goodness, I'm still upset with the Saudi Arabians for everything they do over there.
Why are we always the world's patsies that we have to go over there and fight their wars for them?
They need to fight their wars, we need to defend American interests, but it is not in America's national security interests to have another war in Iraq.
Can I just -- can I -- Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest.
You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal.
We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.
But, we face, also, a bigger war -- and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas.
You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS.
Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves...
...to make (ph) centers (ph) of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization...
...This is a giant battle in the world today...
...we need to reform the Department of Defense, we need as well...
...to invest in our military technology, and we need to care for our veterans so 307,000...
...aren't dying waiting for health care.
Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time.
I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices.
We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution.
That is what we need.
We can't have -- the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you can't get attacked.
And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer off...
John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do.
And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed.
You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore.
This is the culture in Washington.
You have to fight hard for these appointments.
This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do.
Well, Dana, I've known John Roberts for 20 years, he's amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court.
He's a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome.
And, you know, we're frustrated as conservatives.
We keep winning elections, and then we don't get the outcome we want.
And, let me focus on two moments in time.
Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals.
George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter.
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals...
...George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that.
If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books.
These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life...
...and I will as president as well.
Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts.
He supported him, publicly.
So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice.
And, I think he is doing a good job.
But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which legislate.
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation.
That was a mistake and I regret that.
I wouldn't have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why.
It wasn't that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, it's that it was the easier choice.
Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didn't have a long paper trail.
If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they weren't willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.
I have spent my entire life, starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists.
We have an out-of-control Court, and I give you my word, if I'm elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings -- TAPPER: Thank you, Senator.
-- imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans --
-- who need to be trusted to govern ourselves.
You better believe I will, because I'm tired of liberals always having a litmus test and conservatives are supposed to pretend we don't.
Well let me tell you what mine would be.
Number one, I'd ask do you think that the unborn child is a human being or is it just a blob of tissue?
I'd want to know the answer to that.
I'd want to know do you believe in the First Amendment, do you believe that religious liberty is the fundamental liberty around which all the other freedoms of this country are based?
And I'd want to know do you really believe in the Second Amendment, do you believe that we have an individual right to bear arms to protect ourselves and our family and to protect our country?
And do you believe in the Fifth and the 14th Amendment?
Do you believe that a person, before they're deprived of life and liberty, should in fact have due process and equal protection under the law?
Because if you do, you're going to do more than defund Planned Parenthood.
One final thing.
I'd make darn sure that we absolutely believe the 10th Amendment.
Every governor on this stage would share this much with you.
Every one of us -- our biggest fight wasn't always with the legislature or even with the Democrats.
My gosh, half the time, it was with the federal government who apparently never understood --
-- that if it's not reserved in the Constitution, then the 10th Amendment says it's left to the states.
But somebody forgot to send a memo to Washington.
I think one of the great problems, and what American people don't like about politics, is hypocrisy.
People have one standard for others and not for them -- for themselves.
There is at least one prominent example on the stage of someone who says they smoked pot in high school, and yet the people going to -- to jail for this are poor people, often African-Americans and often Hispanics, and yet the rich kids who use drugs aren't.
I personally think that this is a crime for which the only victim is the individual, and I think that America has to take a different attitude.
I would like to see more rehabilitation and less incarceration.
I'm a fan of the drug courts which try to direct you back towards work and less time in jail.
But the bottom line is the states.
We say we like the 10th Amendment, until we start talking about this.
And I think the federal government has gone too far, I think that the war on drugs has had a racial outcome, and really has been something that has really damaged our inner cities.
Not only do the drugs damage them, we damage them again by incarcerating them and then preventing them from getting employment over time.
So I don't think that the federal government should override the states.
I believe in the 10th Amendment and I really will say that the states are left to themselves.
Well, I think if we left it open, we could see how many people smoked pot in high school.
Well, you know, the thing is that...
He was talking about me.
Yeah, I was talking about (inaudible) -- well, let me...
Well, I -- I wanted to -- be -- make it easier for him.
And I just did.
So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it.
I'm sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people.
My mom's not happy that I just did.
That's true.
And here's the deal.
Here's the deal.
We have -- we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana.
What goes on in Colorado, as far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision.
But if you look at the problem of drugs in this -- in this society today, it's a serious problem.
Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin that's taking place.
People's families are -- are being torn apart.
It is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment, more prevention -- we're the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in -- in -- in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second chance.
That's the best way to do this.
But let me respond.
The thing is, is that in Florida, Governor Bush campaigned against medical marijuana.
That means that a small child like Morgan Hintz (ph) that has seizures is day, is failing on non-traditional medications, is not allowed to use cannabis oil.
And if they do that in Florida, they will take the child away, they will put the parents in jail.
And that's what that means if you're against allowing people use medical marijuana, you'll actually put them in jail.
No, you're wrong -- you're wrong about this.
And actually, under the current circumstances, kids who had privilege like you do, don't go to jail, but the poor kids in our inner cities go to jail.
I don't think that's fair.
And I think we need to acknowledge it, and it is hypocritical to still want to put poor people in jail... BUSH: I don't want to put poor people in jail, Randy.
Well, you vote -- you oppose medical marijuana...
Here's the deal.
No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue.
That's the way to solve this problem.
Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a (inaudible) place.
And as a citizen of Florida, I voted no.
But that means you'll put people in jail.
Jake, may I just say...
Jake, you brought my issue up.
You know, I enjoy the interplay.
Thank you, gentlemen.
I'll just say this, first off, New Jersey is the first state in the nation that now says if you are non-violent, non-dealing drug user, that you don't go to jail for your first offense.
You go to mandatory treatment.
You see, Jake, I'm pro-life.
And I think you need to be pro-life for more than just the time in the womb.
It gets tougher when they get out of the womb.
And when they're the 16-year-old drug addict in the Florida county lockup, that life is just as precious as the life in the womb.
And so, that's why I'm for rehabilitation, why I think the war on drugs has been a failure.
But I'll end with this.
That doesn't mean we should be legalizing gate way drugs.
And if Senator Paul thinks that the only victim is the person, look at the decrease in productivity, look at the way people get used and move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug, it is not them that are the only victims.
Their families are the victims too, their children are the victims too, and their employers are the victims also.
That's why I'll enforce the federal law, while you can still put an emphasis on rehabilitation, which we've done in New Jersey.
May I respond?
Jake -- Jake...
Understand what they're saying.
if they're going to say we are going to enforce the federal law against what the state law is, they aren't really believing in the Tenth Amendment.
Governor Christie would go into Colorado, and if you're breaking any federal law on marijuana, even though the state law allows it, he would put you in jail.
If a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil for medical marijuana for seizure treatment, he would put her in jail, if it violates federal law.
I would let Colorado do what the Tenth Amendment says.
This power -- we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level.
Crime was supposed to be left to the states.
Colorado has made their decision.
And I don't want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail, who are trying to get medicine for their kid...
And Senator Paul knows that that's simply not the truth.
In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws, which I supported and implemented.
This is not medical marijuana.
There's goes as much -- a further step beyond.
This is recreational use of marijuana.
This is much different.
And so, while he would like to use a sympathetic story to back up his point, it doesn't work.
If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass the law to change it, and get a president to sign it.
May I respond?
May I respond?
Here is the thing, he doesn't want to make it about medical marijuana, but what if New Jersey's medical marijuana contradicts the federal law?
He's saying he'll send the federal government in, and he will enforce the federal law.
That's not consistent with the Tenth Amendment.
It is not consistent with states' rights.
And it is not consistent with the conservative vision for the country.
I don't think we should be sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine to their child for seizures.
I very much hope I am the only person on this stage who can say this, but I know there are millions of Americans out there who will say the same thing.
My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug addiction.
So, we must invest more in the treatment of drugs.
I agree with Senator Paul.
I agree with states' rights.
But we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just like having a beer.
It's not.
And the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that Jeb Bush smoked 40 years ago.
We do -- sorry, Barbara.
We do need -- we do need criminal justice reform.
We have the highest incarceration rates in the world.
Two-thirds of the people in our prisons are there for non-violent offenses, mostly drug related.
It's clearly not working.
But we need to tell young people the truth.
Drug addiction is an epidemic, and it is taking too many of our young people.
I know this sadly from personal experience.
Not very far.
I think we need to do this state by state.
There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws.
This is a complicated place.
But I do think the natural impulse on the left -- Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws.
President Obama almost reflexively always says the same thing.
And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of -- of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens.
That's not the right approach to do it.
In Florida, we have a background check.
We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them.
We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime.
That's the better approach.
But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.
I -- I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement.
That's -- that's exactly what we need to do.
There's a broader issue here, Hugh.
And there's a broader issue here as well.
First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people.
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants.
The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.
Here's the real issue.
The real issue -- the real issue is not what are people using to commit violence, but why are they committing the violence?
And here's the truth: Because you cannot separate the social, moral wellbeing of your people from their economic and other wellbeing.
You cannot separate it.
You can't have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong values, and you cannot have strong values without strong families and the institutions in this country that defend and support those families.
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values.
I -- I am not, and -- and you mentioned that the U.S. Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms.
I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S. Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory.
And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason...
...
I was honored to be endorsed by Gun Owners of America...
... as the strongest supporter of the Second Amendment on this stage today, and I will...
... fight every day to defend the Bill of Rights.
Speaking for myself, I'm OK with it.
I think there's a certain truth to it.
I know people that, frankly, it has no impact on their life whatsoever.
There are many people.
I would almost say leave it up to them, but I would be willing to check it off, and say I will not get Social Security.
I do not...
As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people.
Don't forget they pay in and they pay in, and maybe they do well, and maybe some people want it.
But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it, and there are many people that do need it very, very badly.
And I would be willing to write mine off 100 percent, Dana.
BASH: So is a voluntary program the way to get the Social Security system solvent again like that.
No, it's not.
But with Donald, it's a good start.
That's really good.
No, listen.
This is an issue that -- that we've gotta talk about, and we haven't talked about yet.
71 percent of all federal spending is on entitlements and debt service.
When John Kennedy was elected president in 1960, it was 26 percent.
Harvard and Dartmouth says that Social Security's going to go insolvent in seven to eight years.
So what I say is very simple.
We need to save this program for the good people out there who have paid into the system and need it.
And if that means making sure that folks like Donald and many of us on the stage don't get it, that's the right thing to do because here's what Hillary Clinton is going to want to do.
She's going to want to put more money into a system that has already lied to us and stolen from us.
This government doesn't need more money to make Social Security solvent.
We need to be not paying out benefits to people who don't really need it.
We need to protect the people who Social Security means the difference between picking between heat and rent and food.
That's why I put out the proposal and that's the people I'm trying to...
Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do.
We're not going to...
Well, and I don't -- he may have lined up with their positions on this issue.
But here is the bottom line.
Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America.
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families.
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.
So we are not going to destroy our economy.
But America is not a planet.
And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore, China is.
And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of.
So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
I don't think Senator Rubio is a skeptic of climate change.
I think what Senator Rubio said I agree with.
That in fact we don't need this massive government intervention to deal with the problem.
Look at what we have done in New Jersey.
We have already reached our clean air goals for 2020.
And when I was governor, I pulled out of the regional cap and trade deal, the only state in the Northeast that did that.
And we still reached our goals.
Why?
Because 53 percent of our electricity comes from nuclear.
We use natural gas.
We use solar power.
We're the third-highest- using solar power state.
You know why?
Because we made all of those things economically feasible.
I agree with Marco.
We shouldn't be destroying our economy in order to chase some wild left-wing idea that somehow us by ourselves is going to fix the climate.
We can contribute to that and be economically sound.
We have proven we can do that in New Jersey.
Nuclear needs to be back on the table in a significant way in this country if we want to go after this problem.
I understand.
No, no, listen, everybody makes a mistake every once in a while, Jake, even George Shultz.
And if that's truly a representation of what he believes we should be doing, then with all due respect to the former secretary of state, I disagree with him.
Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier.
Let me say, climate change...
OK. A skeptic.
You can measure the climate.
You can measure it.
That's not the issue we're discussing.
Here is what I'm skeptical of.
I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy.
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea.
They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California.
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.
And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family.
If you want a skeptic -- if you want a skeptic, Jake, I will happily jump into that briar patch.
If you want a real...
Well, let me put it this way, there has -- there have been numerous studies, and they have not demonstrated that there is any correlation between vaccinations and autism.
This was something that was spread widely 15 or 20 years ago, and it has not been adequately, you know, revealed to the public what's actually going on.
Vaccines are very important.
Certain ones.
The ones that would prevent death or crippling.
There are others, there are a multitude of vaccines which probably don't fit in that category, and there should be some discretion in those cases.
But, you know, a lot of this is -- is -- is pushed by big government.
And I think that's one of the things that people so vehemently want to get rid of, big government.
You know, we have 4.1 million federal employees.
Six hundred and fifty federal agencies and department (sic).
That's why they have to take so much of our taxes.
TAPPER: Should he stop saying it?
Should he stop saying that vaccines cause autism?
Well, you know, I've just explained it to him.
He can read about it if he wants to.
I think he's an intelligent man and will make the correct decision after getting the real facts.
Well, I -- I -- I'd like to respond.
I'd like to respond.
Autism has become an epidemic.
Twenty-five years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics, not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines.
But I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Because you take a baby in -- and I've seen it -- and I've seen it, and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time.
Same exact amount, but you take this little beautiful baby, and you pump -- I mean, it looks just like it's meant for a horse, not for a child, and we've had so many instances, people that work for me.
I only say it's not -- I'm in favor of vaccines, do them over a longer period of time, same amount.
But just in -- in little sections.
I think -- and I think you're going to have -- I think you're going to see a big impact on autism.
He's an OK doctor.
And a lot of pediatricians now recognize that, and, I think, are cutting down on the number and the proximity in which those are done, and I think that's appropriate.
And that's all I'm saying, Jake.
That's all I'm saying.
A second opinion?
One of the greatest -- one of the greatest medical discoveries of all times was -- were the vaccines, particularly for smallpox.
And if you want to read a story, it's called The Speckled Monster, it's an amazing story, it was all done voluntary.
But people came in by the droves.
George Washington wouldn't let his wife visit until she got vaccinated.
So I'm all for vaccines.
But I'm also for freedom.
I'm also a little concerned about how they're bunched up.
Jake?
Jake?
I think we need to remember that there are maybe some controversies about autism, but there is no controversy about the things that are really driving the medical costs in this country.
And I would really believe that the next president ought to declare a war on cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and Alzheimer's, because those are the four things that are causing the greatest level of cost.
John Kennedy said, "we'll go to the moon in a decade and bring a man back," and we did it.
I grew up in the '50s.
I remember the polio vaccine.
We saved billions of dollars since that time, because we haven't had to treat for polio.
Why doesn't this country focus on cures rather than treatment?
Why don't we put a definitive focus scientifically on finding the cure for cancer, for heart disease, for diabetes and for Alzheimer's, a disease alone that will cost us --
$1.1 trillion by the year 2050.
We change the economy and the country.
Ooh, that's a tough one.
You know, I'm big on -- that we were -- and I love what Carly said about women's suffrage.
I think Susan B. Anthony might be a good choice.
That's an easy one.
I'd put my wife on there.
I've been married to her 41 years.
She's fought cancer and lived through it.
She's raised three kids, five great grandkids, and she's put up with me.
I mean, who else could possibly be on that money other than my wife.
And that way, she could spend her own money with her face.
Senator Rubio, you mean?
I know we all look alike.
The -- Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history.
Well, I wouldn't change the $10 bill, I'd change the $20.
I'd take Jackson off and I'd leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers.
And I very much agree with Marco that it should be Rosa Parks.
She was a principled pioneer that helped change this country, helped remedy racial injustice, and that would be an honor that would be entirely appropriate.
I'd put my mother on there.
You know, she was one of 24 children, got married at age 13, had only a third grade education, had to raise two sons by herself, refused to be a victim.
Wouldn't let us be victims, and has been an inspiration to many people.
Well, because she's been sitting for three hours, I think my daughter, Ivanka, who's right here.
Other than that we'll go with Rosa Parks.
I like that.
I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher.
Probably illegal, but what the heck?
Since it's not going to happen.
A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
I wouldn't change the $10 bill, or the $20 bill.
I think, honestly, it's a gesture.
I don't think it helps to change our history.
What I would think is that we ought to recognize that women are not a special interest group.
Women are the majority of this nation.
We are half the potential of this nation, and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses.
Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own.
An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.
I think the Adams family has been shorted in the currency business.
Our country wouldn't be here without John Adams, and he would not have been able to do it without Abigal Adams, so, I'd put Abigail Adams on the bill.
You know, I've been called a lot of names by a lot of different people, and now I got to get called by names by the Secret Service?
I would just say True Heart.
Well, I have one now -- they (ph) call me, "Unit One".
My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One.
You're Unit Two."
FIORINA: Secretariat.
Harley.
I love riding Harley's.
Ever Ready, it's very high energy, Donald.
Humble.
One Nation.
You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba (ph), and I'll tell you, I'd go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel.
Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.
I'd go with Duck Hunter.
Justice Never Sleeps.
I met Ronald Reagan as a teenager, and my family, we're big supporters of him when he ran against Gerald Ford.
It was a big deal because he was the grassroots, running against the establishment, and I'll never forget that.
And, how he stood up and said, you know what, this is something new that our country needs, and our party needs.
If I were president, I would try to be one who says, you know what, I'm a Reagan Conservative.
I'm someone who believes in peace through strength, and I would try to lead the country in that way knowing that our goal is peace, and that war is the last resort, not the first resort.
And, that when we go to war, we go to war in a constitutional way, which means that we have to vote on it, that war is initiated by congress, not by the president, that we go to war electively (ph).
That when we go to war, we don't fight with one arm tied behind our back, we fight all out to win, but then we come home.
At the end of my presidency I would like to believe that the world would be a safe place, and there wouldn't be the threats.
not only to the U.S., but to Israel and our allies, because we would have the most incredible well-trained, well-equipped, well- prepared military in the history of mankind.
And they would know that the commander-in-chief would never send them to a mission without all the resources necessary, but people wouldn't bully us anymore.
Because they would know that that would be an invitation to their destruction.
Domestically, we would be operating under a tax system that eliminated the IRS.
People wouldn't be punished for their work, and for what they produced.
And life would be really deemed precious.
Abortion would be no more.
It would be as much of a scourge in our past as slavery is.
And we would have a peaceful country, where people respected each other and people respected law enforcement.
And we would focus on cures.
And we would make this country not only safe from our enemies without, but safe from the enemies within.
And it would be a good place to raise our kids and our grandkids.
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history.
He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life.
He didn't just believe it, he acted on it.
That's why bringing down communism was so important to him.
If I'm honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan.
They know we stand with them.
That America can be counted on.
It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China.
I would even invite them to my inauguration.
We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia.
And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia.
And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.
Ronald Reagan believed in America.
If I'm elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them.
the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem.
Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with.
ISIS will be defeated.
We will have a president willing to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism," and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons.
Here at home, we'll reignite the promise of America.
Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities.
How will that happen?
Through tax reform.
We'll pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS.
And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
You want to know what I'll do as president?
It is real simple.
We'll kill the terrorists, we'll repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
Well, you know, I was a radical Democrat before I started listening to Ronald Reagan.
And he didn't sound like what they said Republicans were.
He sounded logical.
And I hope that I sound logical also.
Because when I look at what is going on with the United States of America, I see a lot of things that are not logical.
I see us allowing people to divide us, when in fact our strength is in our unity.
I see people exercising the most irresponsible fiscal habits that anyone could possibly do.
And hiding it from the American people, so that the majority of people have no idea what our financial situation is.
So, when someone comes along and says, free college, free phones, free this and that, and the other, they say, "wow, that's nice," having no idea that they're destabilizing our position.
And I think also that Ronald Reagan was a master at understanding that a pinnacle nation has to be a nation that leads.
If we learn to lead in the Middle East right now, a coalition will form behind us, but never they do it if we just sit there and talk about it.
Real leadership is what I would hopefully bring to America.
If I become president, we will do something really special.
We will make this country greater than ever before.
We'll have more jobs.
We'll have more of everything.
We were discussing disease, we were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words, it will just pass on.
I don't want to say politicians, all talk, no action.
But a lot of what we talked about is words and it will be forgotten very quickly.
If I'm president, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten.
We'll find solutions.
And the world will respect us.
They will respect us like never before.
And it will be actually a friendlier world.
And I have to say, it is a great honor to be here tonight.
Six million more people.
For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created.
That is what the next president will have to deal with.
And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.
If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty.
The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit.
That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy.
And then we'll be able to lead the world.
Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.
Well, I turned 13 years old two days before Ronald Reagan was first elected.
A lot of people forget this, but just a few days before that election 1980, he was behind in the polls.
And I think what changed things was people in America realized they didn't want to hear what was bad about America, they wanted to know how it was going to be better.
Ronald Reagan wasn't just a conservative Republican, he was an eternal optimist in the American people.
And I am too.
So here's what I think will make America better.
We need to live in a world where our children are free, are free from the threats of radical Islamic terrorism.
We need to live in an America where we have an economy, where everyone can live their piece of the American dream, no matter what that dream is.
And we need to live in an America where we have a federal government that is not too big to fail, but ultimately small enough to succeed, where we send powers back to the states and back to the people.
That's what I did in Wisconsin.
We took on the big government union bosses, the big government special interests, many of whom came in from Washington, to spend millions of dollars to try and take me out because we stood up to them, we didn't back down in any of those instances.
If you give me the chance as your next president, I won't back down any day, anyway, anyhow.
I'll fight and win for you and your families every single day I'm in office.
I think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by Lady Liberty and Lady Justice.
Lady Liberty stands tall and strong.
She is clear-eyed and resolute.
She doesn't shield her eyes from the realities of the world, but she faces outward into the world nevertheless, as we always must.
And she holds her torch high, because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a very troubled world.
And Lady Justice, Lady Justice holds a sword by her side, because she is a fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great.
She holds a scale in her other hand.
And with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of God.
And so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and the government, powerful and powerless alike.
And she wears a blindfold.
And with that blindfold she is saying to us that it must be true, it can be true that in this country, in this century, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter how you start, it doesn't matter your circumstances, here in this nation, every American's life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their God-given gifts.
One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems.
And how?
By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats.
I did it in Washington.
And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else.
Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world.
We have no choice but to do that.
We will be stronger when we are unified.
And we'll fight for freedom and for human rights.
And finally, a little bit of what Carly said.
The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down.
America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.
One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world.
We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds.
And there is one line on there that stands out all the time.
If you've saved one life, you've changed the world.
We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country.
Thank you.
I turned 18 in 1980, and my first vote was for Ronald Reagan.
Boy, am I glad I did it.
And I think the country is, too.
A Christie presidency won't be about me.
It will be about you.
Tonight, you sit at home in your living room, frustrated that you play by the rules, you pay the taxes, you do the hard things to raise your family, yet you feel like America's generosity is being taken advantage of.
That you've been -- system is being gamed, and that you're turning out to fall further and further behind.
Our presidency -- our presidency -- will be about ending that, about enforcing the law, level the playing field for everybody, and once again reward those folks who play by the rules, and think that justice means more than just the word.
But it means a way of life.
And I will tell you this, around the world, I will not shake hands with, I will not meet with, and I will not agree to anything with a country that says death to us and death to Israel and holds our hostages while we sign agreements with them.
It will be an America that be strong and resolute, and will once again be able to stick out its chest and say, "we truly are the greatest nation in the world, because we live our lives that way, each and every day."
