Y 	We got $18 trillion in debt.
N 	Let me just respond to something the secretary said.
N 	We have a role to play in this world.
N 	But we need tough people.
YC 	I am the only person in either campaign that's self-funding.
Y 	We've saved over a thousand lives in Baltimore in the last 15 years of people working together.
N 	(inaudible).
N 	But the point about foreign policy is not just to know that you can overthrow a terrible dictator, it's to understand what happens the day after.
N 	And that is that we need to separate the casino, speculative, mega-bank gambling that we have to insure with our money, from the commercial banking -- namely, reinstating Glass-Steagall.
N 	We eliminate the payroll tax, we eliminate the Obamacare taxes.
N 	After all, there are...
N 	And that's exactly what I'll do.
N 	I don't know that it's appropriate that the Department of Treasury to be making those decisions.
N 	Atlantic City has gone bad.
N 	How can you run for the Republican nomination and be for single- payer health care?
N 	I believe that every public college and university in this country should be tuition free.
N 	We need a strategy.
Y 	Guest workers are coming in, they're working under terrible conditions, but if they stand up for their rights, they're thrown out of the country.
N 	If they can produce something and bring capital and labor to create jobs, we need some jobs.
N 	Our country is out of control.
N 	That's not profiling, that's law enforcement.
N 	I don't believe that any...
N 	I've laid out a policy of rebuilding our military.
N 	So I think while you're talking about the tough decision that President Obama had to make about Osama bin Laden, where I was one of his few advisers, or putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on Iran -- I think I have a lot of evidence...
N 	...John...
N 	... prove to people that illegal immigration is under control.
N 	If somebody's already stolen money from you, are you going to give them more?
Y 	Had that actually -- that same columnist wrote a column comparing me to an evil demonic spirit from the move, "It Follows" that jumps apparently from body to body possessing people.
Just excuse me, one second, Rand...
N 	You can't do it with empty promised.
N 	I love China.
N 	But I would say this to you, Bret.
N 	We helped them hold two successful elections, something that is not easy, which they did very well because they had a pent up desire to try to chart their own future after 42 years of dictatorship.
N 	Number one, you know, I've talked to farmers, and they said they cannot hire Americans to do the kind of job that I'm talking about.
N 	We have the opposite thinking.
N 	Iran is not a place we should be doing business with.
N 	And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing.
N 	After a migratory crisis on the border with minors coming over that you're seeing start up again now, after all these executive orders the President has issued.
N 	Now, Jake, I've been listening to everybody on the stage and there is a lot of back and forth about I'm the only one who has done this, the only one who has done that, I've done great things.
N 	A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
N 	The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too.
N 	What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement.
N 	So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three.
N 	Yes.
N 	Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product -- a sign of strength, right?
N 	The things that we need to do in our country, like debt-free college in the next five years, like making universal -- like making national service a universal option in order to cut youth unemployment in half in the next three years, all these things can be done if we eliminate one entitlement we can no longer afford as a nation.
N 	But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership.
N 	You've got to keep asking because this is a hugely important issue.
N 	And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm.
N 	If there are a lot of people getting there and engaging in radicalizing activities then we need to be suspicious of it.